 
 
 
                        JCS Hub Document Check List Index 
 
1.Pan copy of the company 
2.Income Tax copy 
3.Pan card of all Directors 
4. Certificate of Incorporation copy 
5.Company AOA 
6.Company MOA 
7.Ministry of Corporate Affairs copy 
8.GST certificate  
9.GST Bills 
10.Aadhar cards of all Directors 
 
HR HROOR INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT GOVT.OF INDIA y   l Permanent Account Number Card AAGCJ1592F If this card is lost/someone's lost card is found please inform/return to: JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Income Tax PAN Services Unit Protean eGov Technologies Limited (formerly NSDL e-Govemance Infrastructure Limited) 4th FloorSapphire Chambers Baner RoadBaner Pune-411045 on/Formatior Tel91-20-27218080e-mail tininf@proteantechin 15/09/2023
HRHROR INCOME TAXDEPARTMENT GOVT.OF INDIA Sep 15,2023 Ref.No.. 88305922202562/TAN/NEW TO. JCSGLOBALPRIVATE LIMITED 76-16-53 KAMAKOTINAGAR VIJAYAWADA (URBAN) BHAVANIPURAM KRISHNA-520012 ANDHRA PRADESH TELNO.:9700747401 Sir/Madam, SubAllotment of Tax Deduction Account Number TAN) as per Income Tax Act,1961 Kindly refer to your application Form 49B datedSep 15,2023 for the allotment of Tax Deduction Account Number In this connection, the following TAN has been issued to you/your organisation: VPNJ02130C Please quote the same in all TDS challans,TDS Certificates,TDS returns,Tax Collection at Source(TCS) returns as well as other documents pertaining to such transactions. Quoting of TAN on all TDS returns and challans for payment of TDS is necessary to ensure credit of TDS paid by you and faster processing of TDS returns. The above TAN should also be used as Tax Collections at Source Account Number under section 206CA. Kindly note that it is mandatory to quote TAN while furnishing TDS returns, including e-TDS returns.e-TDS returns will not be accepted if TAN is not quoted. This supersedes all the Tax Deduction / Collection Account Number, alloted to you earlier. Income Tax Department Signature Not Verified Digitally Caution :Income Tax Department does not send e-mails regarding refunds and does not seek any taxpayer information like username password, details of ATM, bank accounts, credit cards, etc. Taxpayers are advised not to part with such information on the basis of emails.
faarsT 3 INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT GOVT.OFINDIA Permanent Account Number Card AOGPC4644A /Name CHALLA JAGADEESH f /Fathers Name VENKATESWARA RAO CHALLA  t f/Date of Binth 25/11/1989 Cenart /Signature
HRd HREOT GOVT.OFIND INCOME TAXDEPARTMENT Scanned By Scanner RAJESHKUMAR SRIRAM VENKATESWARA RAO SRIRAM 06/04/1988 Permanent Account Number CHVPS8995L Signature
Bafar HRRR INCOMETAX DEPARTMENT GOVT.OF INDIA REVANTH VENKATA SAI KURICHETI GOPALAM KURICHETI 30/11/1994 Permanent Account Number DDGPK9533Q Fsaantnv Signature
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS Central Registration Centre Certificate of Incorporation [Pursuant to sub-section (2) of section 7 and sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and rule 18 of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014] I hereby certify that JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED is incorporated on this FIFTEENTH day of SEPTEMBER TWO shares The Corporate Identity Number of the company is U28246AP2023PTC112384 The Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the company is AAGCJ1592F* The Tax Deduction and Collection Account Number (TAN) of the company is VPNJ02130C* Given under my hand at Manesar this FIFTEENTH day of SEPTEMBER TWO THOUSAND TWENTY THREE Document certified by DS MINISTRY OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS 10 crc@mca.gov.in>. Digitally signed b DS MINISTR CORPORATE AFFAIRS 10 Date: 2023.09.20 15:12:27 IST SHEETAL KUMARI Assistant Registrar of Companies/ Deputy Registrar of Companies/ Registrar of Companies For and on behalf of the Jurisdictional Registrar of Companies Registrar of Companies Central Registration Centre Disclaimer: This certificate only evidences incorporation of the company on the basis of documents and declarations of the applicant(s). This certificate is neither a license nor permission to conduct business or solicit deposits or funds from public. Permission of sector regulator is necessary wherever required. Registration status and other details of the company can be verified on mca.gov.in JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED 76-16-53,KAMAKOTINAGAR,Bhavanipuram,Vijayawada (Urban),Krishna-520012,Andhra Pradesh *as issued by Income tax Department
Page 1 of 16
Form No. INC-34
e-AOA (e-Articles of Association)
[Pursuant to Section 5 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules made thereunder read with Schedule I] 
Form language
English
Hindi
Refer instruction kit for filing the form.
All fields marked in * are mandatory
1-11013868269_SRN_FORM
Table applicable to company as notified under schedule I of the Companies Act, 2013  
(F, G, H)
F
Table F / G / H (basis on the selection of above-mentioned field) as notified under schedule I of 
the companies Act, 2013 is applicable to 
   (F – a company limited by shares 
   G– a company limited by guarantee and having a share capital 
   H – a company limited by guarantee and not having share capital)
F - A COMPANY LIMITED BY 
SHARES
The name of the company is
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
Check if not 
applicable
Check if altered Article No.
Description
Interpretation
✔
I
 
• (1) The company is a Private Company within the meaning of 
Section 2(68) of theCompanies Act2013 and accordingly-(a) restricts 
theright to transfer its shares(b) except incase of One Person 
Company limits the number of its members to two 
hundred.Provided thatwhere two or more persons hold one or 
more shares in a company jointly theyshall for the purposes of this 
clause be treated as a single member.Provided furtherthat(i) 
Persons whoare in the employment of the company and(ii) Persons 
whohaving been formerly in the employment of the company were 
members of thecompany while in that employment and have 
continued to be members after theEmployment ceased Shall not be 
included in the number of members and (iii) prohibitsany invitation 
to the public to subscribe for any securities of the company 
Share Capital and Variation of rights
II 1
 
• Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Articles the shares in 
the capital of the company shall be under the control of the 
Directors who may issue allot or otherwise dispose of the same or 
any of them to such persons in such proportion and on such terms 
and conditions and either at a premium or at par and at such time 
as they may from time to time think fit. 
Page 2 of 16
2
 
• Every person whose name is entered as a member in the register of 
members shall be entitled to receive within two months after 
incorporation in case of subscribers to the memorandum or after 
allotment or within one month after the application for the 
registration of transfer or transmission or within such other period 
as the conditions of issue shall be provided one certificate for all his 
shares without payment of any charges or several certificateseach 
for one or more of his sharesupon payment of twenty rupees for 
each certificate after the first. Every certificate shall be under the 
seal and shall specify the shares to which it relates and the amount 
paid - up thereon. In respect of any share or shares held jointly by 
several persons the company shall not be bound to issue more than 
one certificate and delivery of a certificate for a share to one of 
several joint holders shall be sufficient delivery to all such holders 
3
 
• If any share certificate be worn out defaced mutilated or torn or if 
there be no further space on the back for endorsement of transfer 
then upon production and surrender thereof to the company a new 
certificate may be issued in lieu thereof and if any certificate is lost 
or destroyed then upon proof thereof to the satisfaction of the 
company and on execution of such indemnity as the company 
deem adequate a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given. 
Every certificate under this Article shall be issued on payment of 
twenty rupees for each certificate. The provisions of Articles(2) 
and(3) shall mutatis mutandis apply to debentures of the company. 
4
 
• Except as required by law no person shall be recognised by the 
company as holding any share upon any trust and the company 
shall not be bound by or be compelled in any way to recognise 
(even when having notice thereof) any equitable contingent future 
or partial interest in any share or any interest in any fractional part 
of a share or (except only as by these regulations or by law 
otherwise provided) any other rights in respect of any share except 
an absolute right to the entirety thereof in the registered holder. 
5
 
• The company may exercise the powers of paying commissions 
conferred by sub-section (6) of section 40 provided that the rate per 
cent or the amount of the commission paid or agreed to be paid 
shall be disclosed in the manner required by that section and rules 
made thereunder. The rate or amount of the commission shall not 
exceed the rate or amount prescribed in rules made under sub-
section (6) of section 40. The commission may be satisfied by the 
payment of cash or the allotment of fully or partly paid shares or 
partly in the one way and partly in the other. 
6
 
• If at any time the share capital is divided into different classes of 
shares the rights attached to any class (unless otherwise provided 
by the terms of issue of the shares of that class) may subject to the 
provisions of section 48 and whether or not the company is being 
wound up be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of 
three-fourths of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction 
of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders 
of the shares of that class. To every such separate meeting the 
provisions of these regulations relating to general meetings shall 
mutatis mutandis apply but so that the necessary quorum shall be 
at least two persons holding at least one-third of the issued shares 
Page 3 of 16
of the class in question. 
7
 
• The rights conferred upon the holders of the shares of any class 
issued with preferred or other rights shall not unless otherwise 
expressly provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that class 
be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares 
ranking pari passu therewith. 
8
 
• Subject to the provisions of section 55 any preference shares may 
with the sanction of an ordinary resolution be issued on the terms 
that they are to be redeemed on such terms and in such manner as 
the company before the issue of the shares may by special 
resolution determine. 
Lien
9
 
• The company shall have a first and paramount lienon every share 
(not being a fully paid share) for all monies (whether presently 
payable or not) called or payable at a fixed time in respect of that 
share and on all shares (not being fully paid shares) standing 
registered in the name of a single person for all monies presently 
payable by him or his estate to the companyProvided that the 
Board of directors may at any time declare any share to be wholly or 
in part exempt from the provisions of this clause. The companys 
lien if any on a share shall extend to all dividends payable and 
bonuses declared from time to time in respect of such shares. 
10
 
• The company may sell in such manner as the Board thinks fit any 
shares on which the company has a lienProvided that no sale shall 
be madea unless a sum in respect of which the lien exists is 
presently payable or b until the expiration of fourteen days after a 
notice in writing stating and demanding payment of such part of 
the amount in respect of which the lien exists as is presently 
payable has been given to the registered holder for the time being 
of the share or the person entitled thereto by reason of his death or 
insolvency. 
11
 
• To give effect to any such sale the Board may authorise some 
person to transfer the shares sold to the purchaser thereof The 
purchaser shall be registered as the holder of the shares comprised 
in any such transfer. The purchaser shall not be bound to see to the 
application of the purchase money nor shall his title to the shares 
be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings in 
reference to the sale. 
12
 
• The proceeds of the sale shall be received by the company and 
applied in payment of such part of the amount in respect of which 
the lien exists as is presently payable. The residue if any shall 
subject to a like lien for sums not presently payable as existed upon 
the shares before the sale be paid to the person entitled to the 
shares at the date of the sale. 
Calls on shares
 
• The Board may from time to time make calls upon the members in 
respect of any monies unpaid on their shares (whether on account 
Page 4 of 16
13
of the nominal value of the shares or by way of premium) and not 
by the conditions of allotment thereof made payable at fixed 
timesProvided that no call shall exceed one-fourth of the nominal 
value of the share or be payable at less than one month from the 
date fixed for the payment of the last preceding call. Each member 
shall subject to receiving at least fourteen days notice specifying 
the time or times and place of payment pay to the company at the 
time or times and place so specified the amount called on his 
shares. A call may be revoked or postponed at the discretion of the 
Board. 
14
 
• A call shall be deemed to have been made at the time when the 
resolution of the Board authorizing the call was passed and may be 
required to be paid by instalments. 
15
 
• The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally liable to 
pay all calls in respect thereof. 
16
 
• If a sum called in respect of a share is not paid before or on the day 
appointed for payment thereof the person from whom the sum is 
due shall pay interest thereon from the day appointed for payment 
thereof to the time of actual payment at ten per cent per annum or 
at such lower rate if any as the Board may determine. The Board 
shall be at liberty to waive payment of any such interest wholly or in 
part. 
17
 
• Any sum which by the terms of issue of a share becomes payable 
on allotment or at any fixed date whether on account of the 
nominal value of the share or by way of premium shall for the 
purposes of these regulations be deemed to be a call duly made 
and payable on the date on which by the terms of issue such sum 
becomes payable. In case of non-payment of such sum all the 
relevant provisions of these regulations as to payment of interest 
and expenses forfeiture or otherwise shall apply as if such sum had 
become payable by virtue of a call duly made and notified. 
18
 
• The Board - a. may if it thinks fit receive from any member willing to 
advance the same all or any part of the monies uncalled and unpaid 
upon any shares held by him andb. upon all or any of the monies so 
advanced may (until the same would but for such advance become 
presently payable) pay interest at such rate not exceeding unless 
the company in general meeting shall otherwise direct twelve per 
cent per annum as may be agreed upon between the Board and the 
member paying the sum in advance. 
Transfer of shares
19
 
• The instrument of transfer of any share in the company shall be 
executed by or on behalf of both the transferor and transferee. The 
transferor shall be deemed to remain a holder of the share until the 
name of the transferee is entered in the register of members in 
respect thereof. 
20
 
• The Board may subject to the right of appeal conferred by section 
58 decline to register the transfer of a share not being a fully paid 
share to a person of whom they do not approve or any transfer of 
Page 5 of 16
shares on which the company has a lien. 
21
 
• The Board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer 
unlessa. the instrument of transfer is in the form as prescribed in 
rules made under sub-section (1) of section 56b. the instrument of 
transfer is accompanied by the certificate of the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer 
andc. the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of 
shares. 
22
 
• On giving not less than seven days previous notice in accordance 
with section 91 and rules made thereunder the registration of 
transfers may be suspended at such times and for such periods as 
the Board may from time to time determineProvided that such 
registration shall not be suspended for more than thirty days at any 
one time or for more than forty-five days in the aggregate in any 
year. 
Transmission of shares
23
 
• On the death of a member the survivor or survivors where the 
member was a joint holder and his nominee or nominees or legal 
representatives where he was a sole holder shall be the only 
persons recognised by the company as having any title to his 
interest in the shares Nothing in clause (i) shall release the estate of 
a deceased joint holder from any liability in respect of any share 
which had been jointly held by him with other persons. 
24
 
• Any person becoming entitled to a share in consequence of the 
death or insolvency of a member may upon such evidence being 
produced as may from time to time properly be required by the 
Board and subject as hereinafter provided elect either to be 
registered himself as holder of the share or to make such transfer of 
the share as the deceased or insolvent member could have made. 
The Board shall in either case have the same right to decline or 
suspend registration as it would have had if the deceased or 
insolvent member had transferred the share before his death or 
insolvency. 
25
 
• If the person so becoming entitled shall elect to be registered as 
holder of the share himself he shall deliver or send to the company 
a notice in writing signed by him stating that he so elects. If the 
person aforesaid shall elect to transfer the share he shall testify his 
election by executing a transfer of the share. All the limitations 
restrictions and provisions of these regulations relating to the right 
to transfer and the registration of transfers of shares shall be 
applicable to any such notice or transfer as aforesaid as if the death 
or insolvency of the member had not occurred and the notice or 
transfer were a transfer signed by that member. 
 
• A person becoming entitled to a share by reason of the death or 
insolvency of the holder shall be entitled to the same dividends and 
other advantages to which he would be entitled if he were the 
registered holder of the share except that he shall not before being 
registered as a member in respect of the share be entitled in 
Page 6 of 16
26
respect of it to exercise any right conferred by membership in 
relation to meetings of the company Provided that the Board may 
at any time give notice requiring any such person to elect either to 
be registered himself or to transfer the share and if the notice is not 
complied with within ninety days the Board may thereafter 
withhold payment of all dividends bonuses or other monies 
payable in respect of the share until the requirements of the notice 
have been complied with. 
27
 
• In case of a One Person Company on the death of the sole member 
the person nominated by such member shall be the person 
recognised by the company as having title to all the shares of the 
member the nominee on becoming entitled to such shares in case 
of the members death shall be informed of such event by the Board 
of the company such nominee shall be entitled to the same 
dividends and other rights and liabilities to which such sole 
member of the company was entitled or liable on becoming 
member such nominee shall nominate any other person with the 
prior written consent of such person who shall in the event of the 
death of the member become the member of the company. 
Forfeiture of shares
28
 
• If a member fails to pay any call or instalment of a call on the day 
appointed for payment thereof the Board may at any time 
thereafter during such time as any part of the call or instalment 
remains unpaid serve a notice on him requiring payment of so 
much of the call or instalment as is unpaid together with any 
interest which may have accrued. 
29
 
• The notice aforesaid shall name a further day (not being earlier than 
the expiry of fourteen days from the date of service of the notice) 
on or before which the payment required by the notice is to be 
made and state that in the event of non-payment on or before the 
day so named the shares in respect of which the call was made shall 
be liable to be forfeited. 
30
 
• If the requirements of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied 
with any share in respect of which the notice has been given may at 
any time thereafter before the payment required by the notice has 
been made be forfeited by a resolution of the Board to that effect. 
31
 
• A forfeited share may be sold or otherwise disposed of on such 
terms and in such manner as the Board thinks fit.At any time before 
a sale or disposal as aforesaid the Board may cancel the forfeiture 
on such terms as it thinks fit. 
32
 
• A person whose shares have been forfeited shall cease to be a 
member in respect of the forfeited shares but shall notwithstanding 
the forfeiture remain liable to pay to the company all monies which 
at the date of forfeiture were presently payable by him to the 
company in respect of the shares. The liability of such person shall 
cease if and when the company shall have received payment in full 
of all such monies in respect of the shares. 
 
• A duly verified declaration in writing that the declarant is a director 
Page 7 of 16
33
the manager or the secretary of the company and that a share in 
the company has been duly forfeited on a date stated in the 
declaration shall be conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated 
as against all persons claiming to be entitled to the share The 
company may receive the consideration if any given for the share 
on any sale or disposal thereof and may execute a transfer of the 
share in favour of the person to whom the share is sold or disposed 
of The transferee shall thereupon be registered as the holder of the 
share and The transferee shall not be bound to see to the 
application of the purchase money if any nor shall his title to the 
share be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings 
in reference to the forfeiture sale or disposal of the share. 
34
 
• The provisions of these regulations as to forfeiture shall apply in the 
case of non-payment of any sum which by the terms of issue of a 
share becomes payable at a fixed time whether on account of the 
nominal value of the share or by way of premium as if the same had 
been payable by virtue of a call duly made and notified. 
Alteration of capital
35
 
• The company may from time to time by ordinary resolution 
increase the share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of 
such amount as may be specified in the resolution. 
36
 
• Subject to the provisions of section 61 the company may by 
ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share 
capital into shares of larger amount than its existing shares convert 
all or any of its fully paid-up shares into stock and reconvert that 
stock into fully paid-up shares of any denomination sub-divide its 
existing shares or any of them into shares of smaller amount than is 
fixed by the memorandum cancel any shares which at the date of 
the passing of the resolution have not been taken or agreed to be 
taken by any person. 
37
 
• Where shares are converted into stock the holders of stock may 
transfer the same or any part thereof in the same manner as and 
subject to the same regulations under which the shares from which 
the stock arose might before the conversion have been transferred 
or as near thereto as circumstances admit Provided that the Board 
may from time to time fix the minimum amount of stock 
transferable so however that such minimum shall not exceed the 
nominal amount of the shares from which the stock arose. the 
holders of stock shall according to the amount of stock held by 
them have the same rights privileges and advantages as regards 
dividends voting at meetings of the companyand other matters as 
if they held the shares from which the stock arose but no such 
privilege or advantage (except participation in the dividends and 
profits of the company and in the assets on winding up) shall be 
conferred by an amount of stock which would not if existing in 
shares have conferred that privilege or advantage. such of the 
regulations of the company as are applicable to paid-up shares shall 
apply to stock and the words share and shareholder in those 
regulations shall include stock and stock-holder respectively. 
Page 8 of 16
38
 
• The company may by special resolution reduce in any manner and 
with and subject to any incident authorised and consent required 
by law it share capital any capital redemption reserve account or 
any share premium account. 
Capitalisation of profits
39
 
• The company in general meeting may upon the recommendation 
of the Board resolve that it is desirable to capitalise any part of the 
amount for the time being standing to the credit of any of the 
companys reserve accounts or to the credit of the profit and loss 
accountor otherwise available for distribution and that such sum be 
accordingly set free for distribution in the manner specified in 
clause (ii) amongst the members who would have been entitled 
thereto if distributed by way of dividend and in the same 
proportions. The sum aforesaid shall not be paid in cash but shall be 
applied subject to the provision contained in clause (iii) either in or 
towards paying up any amounts for the time being unpaid on any 
shares held by such members respectively paying up in full 
unissued shares of the company to be allotted and distributed 
credited as fully paid-up to and amongst such members in the 
proportions aforesaid partly in the way specified in sub-clause (A) 
and partly in that specified in sub-clause (B) A securities premium 
account and a capital redemption reserve account may for the 
purposes of this regulation be applied in the paying up of unissued 
shares to be issued to members of the company as fully paid bonus 
shares The Board shall give effect to the resolution passed by the 
company in pursuance of this regulation. 
40
 
• Whenever such a resolution as aforesaid shall have been passed the 
Board shall make all appropriations and applications of the 
undivided profits resolved to be capitalised thereby and all 
allotments and issues of fully paid shares if any and generally do all 
acts and things required to give effect thereto. The Board shall have 
power to make such provisions by the issue of fractional certificates 
or by payment in cash or otherwise as it thinks fit for the case of 
shares becoming distributable in fractions and to authorise any 
person to enter on behalf of all the members entitled thereto into 
an agreement with the company providing for the allotment to 
them respectively credited as fully paid-up of any further shares to 
which they may be entitled upon such capitalisation or as the case 
may require for the payment by the company on their behalf by the 
application thereto of their respective proportions of profits 
resolved to be capitalised of the amount or any part of the amounts 
remaining unpaid on their existing shares Any agreement made 
under such authority shall be effective and binding on such 
members 
Buy-back of shares
41
 
• Notwithstanding anything contained in these articles but subject to 
the provisions of sections 68 to 70 and any other applicable 
provision of the Act or any other law for the time being in force the 
company may purchase its own shares or other specified securities. 
Page 9 of 16
General meetings
42
 
• All general meetings other than annual general meeting shall be 
called extraordinary general meeting. 
43
 
• The Board may whenever it thinks fit call an extraordinary general 
meeting. If at any time directors capable of acting who are sufficient 
in number to form a quorum are not within India any director or 
any two members of the company may call an extraordinary 
general meeting in the same manner as nearly as possible as that in 
which such a meeting may be called by the Board. 
Proceedings at general meetings
44
 
• No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a 
quorum of members is present at the time when the meeting 
proceeds to business. Save as otherwise provided herein the 
quorum for the general meetings shall be as provided in section 
103. 
45
 
• The chairperson if any of the Board shall preside as Chairperson at 
every general meeting of the company. 
46
 
• If there is no such Chairperson or if he is not present within fifteen 
minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting or is 
unwilling to act as chairperson of the meeting the directors present 
shall elect one of their members to be Chairperson of the meeting. 
47
 
• If at any meeting no director is willing to act as Chairperson or if no 
director is present within fifteen minutes after the time appointed 
for holding the meeting the members present shall choose one of 
their members to be Chairperson of the meeting. 
48
 
• In case of a One Person Company the resolution required to be 
passed at the general meetings of the company shall be deemed to 
have been passed if the resolution is agreed upon by the sole 
member and communicated to the company and entered in the 
minutes book maintained under section 118 such minutes book 
shall be signed and dated by the member the resolution shall 
become effective from the date of signing such minutes by the sole 
member. 
Adjournment of meeting
49
 
• The Chairperson may with the consent of any meeting at which a 
quorum is present and shall if so directed by the meeting adjourn 
the meeting from time to time and from place to place. No business 
shall be transacted at any adjourned meeting other than the 
business left unfinished at the meeting from which the 
adjournment took place. When a meeting is adjourned for thirty 
days or more notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given as in 
the case of an original meeting. Save as aforesaid and as provided 
in section 103 of the Act it shall not be necessary to give any notice 
of an adjournment or of the business to be transacted at an 
Page 10 of 16
adjourned meeting. 
Voting rights
50
 
• Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached to 
any class or classes of shares on a show of hands every member 
present in person shall have one vote and on a poll the voting 
rights of members shall be in proportion to his share in the paid-up 
equity share capital of the company. 
51
 
• A member may exercise his vote at a meeting by electronic means 
in accordance with section 108 and shall vote only once. 
52
 
• In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a 
vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the 
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.For this purpose 
seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names 
stand in the register of members. 
53
 
• A member of unsound mind or in respect of whom an order has 
been made by any court having jurisdiction in lunacy may vote 
whether on a show of hands or on a poll by his committee or other 
legal guardian and any such committee or guardian may on a poll 
vote by proxy. 
54
 
• Any business other than that upon which a poll has been 
demanded maybe proceeded with pending the taking of the poll. 
55
 
• No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting unless 
all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of shares 
in the company have been paid 
56
 
• No objection shall be raised to the qualification of any voter except 
at the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the vote objected to 
is given or tendered and every vote not disallowed at such meeting 
shall be valid for all purposes. Any such objection made in due time 
shall be referred to the Chairperson of the meeting whose decision 
shall be final and conclusive. 
Proxy
57
 
• The instrument appointing a proxy and the power-of-attorney or 
other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarised copy of 
that power or authority shall be deposited at the registered office of 
the company not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the 
meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the 
instrument proposes to vote or in the case of a poll not less than 24 
hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll and in 
default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. 
58
 
• An instrument appointing a proxy shall be in the form as prescribed 
in the rules made under section 105 
 
• A vote given in accordance with the terms of an instrument of 
proxy shall be valid notwithstanding the previous death or insanity 
Page 11 of 16
59
of the principal or the revocation of the proxy or of the authority 
under which the proxy was executed or the transfer of the shares in 
respect of which the proxy is givenProvided that no intimation in 
writing of such death insanity revocation or transfer shall have been 
received by the company at its office before the commencement of 
the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the proxy is used. 
Board of Directors
✔
60
 
• The number of thedirectors and the names of the first directors 
shall be determined in writingby the subscribers of the 
memorandum or a majority of them.The subscribersto the 
memorandum and articles of association of this company shall be 
firstdirectors of the Company.Following is thestructure of Directors 
in the company S. No. Name of the Promoter Position in the new 
company 1 CHALLA JAGADEESH Director 2 YARRPOTHU VENKATA 
NAGA DURGA BHAVANI Director 
61
 
• The remuneration of the directors shall in so far as it consists of a 
monthly payment be deemed to accrue from day-to-day. In 
addition to the remuneration payable to them in pursuance of the 
Act the directors may be paid all travelling hotel and other 
expenses properly incurred by them in attending and returning 
from meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof 
or general meetings of the company or in connection with the 
business of the company. 
62
 
• The Board may pay all expenses incurred in getting up and 
registering the company. 
63
 
• The company may exercise the powers conferred on it by section 88 
with regard to the keeping of a foreign register and the Board may 
(subject to the provisions of that section) make and vary such 
regulations as it may think fit respecting the keeping of any such 
register. 
64
 
• All cheques promissory notes drafts hundis bills of exchange and 
other negotiable instruments and all receipts for monies paid to the 
company shall be signed drawn accepted endorsed or otherwise 
executed as the case may be by such person and in such manner as 
the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine 
65
 
• Every director present at any meeting of the Board or of a 
committee thereof shall sign his name in a book to be kept for that 
purpose. 
66
 
• Subject to the provisions of section 149 the Board shall have power 
at any time and from time to time to appoint a person as an 
additional director provided the number of the directors and 
additional directors together shall not at any time exceed the 
maximum strength fixed for the Board by the articles. Such person 
shall hold office only up to the date of the next annual general 
meeting of the company but shall be eligible for appointment by 
the company as a director at that meeting subject to the provisions 
of the Act. 
Page 12 of 16
Proceedings of the Board
67
 
• The Board of Directors may meet for the conduct of business 
adjourn and otherwise regulate its meetings as it thinks fit. A 
director may and the manager or secretary on the requisition of a 
director shall at any time summon a meeting of the Board. 
68
 
• Save as otherwise expressly provided in the Act questions arising at 
any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes. In 
case of an equality of votes the Chairperson of the Board if any shall 
have a second or casting vote. 
69
 
• The continuing directors may act notwithstanding any vacancy in 
the Board but if and so long as their number is reduced below the 
quorum fixed by the Act for a meeting of the Board the continuing 
directors or director may act for the purpose of increasing the 
number of directors to that fixed for the quorum or of summoning a 
general meeting of the company but for no other purpose. 
70
 
• The Board may elect a Chairperson of its meetings and determine 
the period for which he is to hold office. If no such Chairperson is 
elected or if at any meeting the Chairperson is not present within 
five minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting the 
directors present may choose one of their number to be 
Chairperson of the meeting. 
71
 
• The Board may subject to the provisions of the Act delegate any of 
its powers to committees consisting of such member or members 
of its body as it thinks fit. Any committee so formed shall in the 
exercise of the powers so delegated conform to any regulations 
that may be imposed on it by the Board. 
72
 
• A committee may elect a Chairperson of its meetings. If no such 
Chairperson is elected or if at any meeting the Chairperson is not 
present within five minutes after the time appointed for holding 
the meeting the memberspresent may choose one of their 
members to be Chairperson of the meeting. 
73
 
• A committee may meet and adjourn as it thinks fit. Questions 
arising at any meeting of a committee shall be determined by a 
majority of votes of the members present and in case of an equality 
of votes the Chairperson shall have a second or casting vote. 
74
 
• All acts done in any meeting of the Board or of a committee thereof 
or by any person acting as a director shall notwithstanding that it 
may be afterwards discovered that there was some defect in the 
appointment of any one or more of such directors or of any person 
acting as aforesaid or that they or any of them were disqualified be 
as valid as if every such director or such person had been duly 
appointed and was qualified to be a director. 
75
 
• Save as otherwise expressly provided in the Act a resolution in 
writing signed by all the members of the Board or of a committee 
thereof for the time being entitled to receive notice of a meeting of 
the Board or committee shall be valid and effective as if it had been 
Page 13 of 16
passed at a meeting of the Board or committee duly convened and 
held. 
76
 
• In case of a One Person Company where the company is having 
only one director all the businesses to be transacted at the meeting 
of the Board shall be entered into minutes book maintained under 
section 118 such minutes book shall be signed and dated by the 
director the resolution shall become effective from the date of 
signing such minutes by the director. 
Chief Executive Officer, Manager, Company Secretary or Chief Financial 
Officer
77
 
• Subject to the provisions of the Act A chief executive officer 
manager company secretary or chief financial officer may be 
appointed by the Board for such term at such remuneration and 
upon such conditions as it may think fit and any chief executive 
officer manager company secretary or chief financial officer so 
appointed may be removed by means of a resolution of the Board A 
director may be appointed as chief executive officer manager 
company secretary or chief financial officer 
78
 
• A provision of the Act or these regulations requiring or authorising 
a thing to be done by or to a director and chief executive officer 
manager company secretary or chief financial officer shall not be 
satisfied by its being done by or to the same person acting both as 
director and as or in place of chief executive officer manager 
company secretary or chief financial officer. 
The Seal
79
 
• The Board shall provide for the safe custody of the seal. The seal of 
the company shall not be affixed to any instrument except by the 
authority of a resolution of the Board or of a committee of the 
Board authorised by it in that behalf and except in the presence of 
at least two directors and of the secretary or such other person as 
the Board may appoint for the purpose and those two directors and 
the secretary or other person aforesaid shall sign every instrument 
to which the seal of the company is so affixed in their presence. 
Dividends and Reserve
80
 
• The company in general meeting may declare dividends but no 
dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. 
81
 
• Subject to the provisions of section 123 the Board may from time to 
time pay to the members such interim dividends as appear to it to 
be justified by the profits of the company. 
82
 
• The Board may before recommending any dividend set aside out of 
the profits of the company such sums as it thinks fit as a reserve or 
reserves which shall at the discretion of the Board be applicable for 
any purpose to which the profits of the company may be properly 
applied including provision for meeting contingencies or for 
equalizing dividends and pending such application may at the like 
discretion either be employed in the business of the company or be 
Page 14 of 16
invested in such investments (other than shares of the company) as 
the Board may from time to time thinks fit. The Board may also carry 
forward any profits which it may consider necessary not to divide 
without setting them aside as a reserve 
83
 
• Subject to the rights of persons if any entitled to shares with special 
rights as to dividends all dividends shall be declared and paid 
according to the amounts paid or credited as paid on the shares in 
respect whereof the dividend is paid but if and so long as nothing is 
paid upon any of the shares in the company dividends may be 
declared and paid according to the amounts of the shares. No 
amount paid or credited as paid on a share in advance of calls shall 
be treated for the purposes of this regulation as paid on the share. 
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the 
amounts paid or credited as paid on the shares during any portion 
or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid 
but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for 
dividend as from a particular date such share shall rank for dividend 
accordingly. 
84
 
• The Board may deduct from any dividend payable to any member 
all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the company 
on account of calls or otherwise in relation to the shares of the 
company. 
85
 
• Any dividend interest or other monies payable in cash in respect of 
shares may be paid by cheque or warrant sent through the post 
directed to the registered address of the holder or in the case of 
joint holders to the registered address of that one of the joint 
holders who is first named on the register of members or to such 
person and to such address as the holder or joint holders may in 
writing direct. Every such cheque or warrant shall be made payable 
to the order of the person to whom it is sent. 
86
 
• Any one of two or more joint holders of a share may give effective 
receipts for any dividends bonuses or other monies payable in 
respect of such share. 
87
 
• Notice of any dividend that may have been declared shall be given 
to the persons entitled to share therein in the manner mentioned in 
the Act. 
88
 
• No dividend shall bear interest against the company. 
Accounts
89
 
• The Board shall from time to time determine whether and to what 
extent and at what times and places and under what conditions or 
regulations the accounts and books of the company or any of them 
shall be open to the inspection of members not being directors. No 
member (not being a director) shall have any right of inspecting 
any account or book or document of the company except as 
conferred by law or authorised by the Board or by the company in 
general meeting. 
Page 15 of 16
Winding up
90
 
• Subject to the provisions of Chapter XX of the Act and rules made 
thereunder If the company shall be wound up the liquidator may 
with the sanction of a special resolution of the company and any 
other sanction required by the Act divide amongst the members in 
specie or kind the whole or any part of the assets of the company 
whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not. For 
the purpose aforesaid the liquidator may set such value as he 
deems fair upon any property to be divided as aforesaid and may 
determine how such division shall be carried out as between the 
members or different classes of members. The liquidator may with 
the like sanction vest the whole or any part of such assets in 
trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the contributories if he 
considers necessary but so that no member shall be compelled to 
accept any shares or other securities whereon there is any liability. 
Indemnity
91
 
• Every officer of the company shall be indemnified out of the assets 
of the company against any liability incurred by him in defending 
any proceedings whether civil or criminal in which judgment is 
given in his favour or in which he is acquitted or in which relief is 
granted to him by the court or the Tribunal. 
Others
92
 
•   
Subscriber Details
S. 
No.
Subscriber Details
*Name, Address, Description and 
Occupation
DIN / PAN / Passport 
number
*Place
DSC
Dated
1
CHALLA  JAGADEESH 
 
76-16-53 NEW MASEED STREET 
VIJAYAWADA(URBAN), ANDHRA PRADESH, 
INDIA 
 
 
SELF EMPLOYED  
08104415
ANDHRA 
PRADESH
0810441
DIN1###
15/09/2023
2
YARRAPOTHU VENKATA NAGA DURGA 
BHAVANI 
MSN TWERS BLOCK-1, GF-2, JOJI NAGAR, 
CURRENT OFFICE ROAD, NEXT ROAD TO 
PHILADELPHIA CHURCH VIJAYWADA-520012, 
ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA 
 
 
08862545
ANDHRA 
PRADESH
0886254
DIN2###
15/09/2023
CHALLA 
JAGADEE
SH
Digitally signed by 
CHALLA 
JAGADEESH 
Date: 2023.09.15 
12:51:58 +05’30’
YARRAPOTH
U VENKATA 
NAGA DURGA 
BHAVANI
Digitally signed by 
YARRAPOTHU 
VENKATA NAGA 
DURGA BHAVANI 
Date: 2023.09.15 
12:54:45 +05’30’
Page 16 of 16
SELF EMPLOYED  
Signed before me
Name Prefix 
(ACA/FCA/ACS/
FCS/ACMA/
FCMA)
*Name of the 
witness
*Address, Description 
and Occupation
*DIN / PAN / 
Passport 
number / 
Membership 
DSC
Dated
ACS
LABDHI 
KOCHAR
701-706, Priviera, Nr. 
Nehru Nagar Cross 
Roads, Patel Colony, 
Ambawadi, 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat 
380015
44913
AHMEDABABD
44913
DIN3##
15/09/2023
LABDHI 
KOCHAR
Digitally signed by 
LABDHI KOCHAR 
Date: 2023.09.15 
13:04:15 +05’30’
Page 1 of 15
Refer instruction kit for filing the form
All fields marked in * are mandatory
Hindi
Form language
Form No. INC-33
English
e-MOA (e-Memorandum of Association) 
[Pursuant to Schedule I (see Sections 4 and 5) to 
the Companies Act, 2013)]
1-11013868290_SRN_FORM
1-11013868290
A - MEMORANDUM OF 
ASSOCIATION OF A COMPANY 
LIMITED BY SHARES
* Table applicable to company as notified under schedule I of the Companies Act, 2013  
(A - MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF A COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES 
 B - MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF A COMPANY LIMITED BY GUARANTEE AND NOT HAVING A SHARE CAPITAL 
C - MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF A COMPANY LIMITED BY GUARANTEE AND HAVING A SHARE CAPITAL 
D - MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF AN UNLIMITED COMPANY AND NOT HAVING SHARE CAPITAL 
E - MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF AN UNLIMITED COMPANY AND HAVING SHARE CAPITAL) 
Table A/B/C/D/E
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
1 The name of the company is 
Andhra Pradesh
2 The registered office of the company will be situated in the State of                      
1. 
To manage, run, charter, 
conduct, contract, develop, 
handle, own, operate and to do 
business as fleet carriers, 
transporters, in all its branches 
on land, air, water, & space, for 
transporting goods, in all modes 
including bulk and containers, 
articles, or things or heavy and 
over dimensional cargo, on all 
routes and lines on National and 
International level subject to law 
in force through all sorts of 
carries like trucks, lorries, 
trawlers, dumpers, coaches, 
tankers, tractors, haulers, jeeps, 
trailers, motor buses, omnibuses, 
motor taxies, railways, tramways, 
aircrafts, hovercrafts, rockers, 
space shuttles, ships, vessels, 
boats, barges and so on whether 
propelled by petrol, diesel, 
electricity, steam oil, atomic 
power or any other form of 
power.  
2. 
To establish, organize, 
manage, run, charter, conduct, 
contract, develop, handle, 
operate material Handling 
equipments and supplying 
materials to mining industries 
3. 
To undertake the 
3 (a) The objects to be pursued by the company on its incorporation are:  
Page 2 of 15
establishment, operation, and 
management of power plants, 
including solar power plants, 
wind power plants, and other 
renewable energy facilities, and 
to supply generated electricity to 
the grid or private consumption. 
4. 
To trade in, import, 
export, purchase, sell and 
distribute electric hardware and 
equipment, including but not 
limited to solar panels, inverters, 
batteries, and other components 
related to solar energy systems.  
5. 
To act as representative, 
Agent, Sub Agent, Commission 
Agent of Indian and foreign 
Companies, Firms, persons, 
states and other bodies 
Corporates and to represent 
them before the different 
authorities Corporates and 
bodies and to act as their Sales, 
purchase representatives and to 
render services to them for 
transporting warehousing, 
distributing, and maintaining all 
types of goods and Equipments 
in good conditions supplied by 
the Principals. 
1. 
To acquire, build, 
construct, improve, develop, give 
or take in exchange or on lease, 
rent, hire, occupy, allow, control, 
maintain, operate, run, sell, 
dispose of, carry out or alter as 
may be necessary or convenient 
any lease-hold or freehold lands, 
movable or immovable 
properties, including building, 
workshops, warehouse, stores, 
easement or other rights, 
machineries, plant, work, stock in 
trade, industrial colonies, 
conveniences together with all 
modern amenities and facilities 
such as housing, schools, 
hospitals, water supply, 
sanitation, townships and other 
facilities or properties which may 
seem calculated directly or 
indirectly to advance the 
company?s objects and interest 
either in consideration of a gross 
sum of a rent charged in cash or 
services. 
 
    (b) *Matters which are necessary for furtherance of the objects specified 
      in clause 3(a) are 
Page 3 of 15
2. 
To apply for, purchase, 
acquire, and protect, prolong 
and renew in any part of the 
world any patents, patent rights, 
brevets invention, licenses, 
protections and concessions 
which may  appear likely to be 
advantageous or useful to the 
company and to use and turn to 
account and   or grant licenses or 
privileges in respect of the same 
and to spend money in 
experimentingupon and testing 
and improving or seeking to 
improve any patents, inventions 
or rights which    the company 
may acquire or proposes to  
acquire. 
 
3. 
To establish, provide, 
maintain and conduct or 
subsidies research laboratories 
and experimental workshops for 
scientific and technical 
researches, experiments and 
tests of all kinds and devices and/
or to sponsor or draw out 
programs for promoting 
scientific, technical, social, 
economic and educational 
research and development and 
assist in the execution and 
promotion of such programs 
either directly or through an 
independent agency or in any 
other manner, directly    or 
indirectly and to secure such 
approvals, exemptions and/or 
recognitions under the Income   
Tax Act, 1961 and any other law 
for the time being in force and to 
promote studies  and researches 
both scientific and technical 
investigations, endowing or 
assisting laboratories, 
workshops, libraries, lectures, 
meetings and conferences and 
by providing or contributing to 
the award of scholarships, prizes, 
grants to students and generally 
to encourage, promote 
inventions of any kind that may 
be considered useful to the  
company. 
 
4. 
To  form or enter into 
any joint venture agreement to 
incorporate, promote, purchase, 
acquire, undertake or takeover,  
the whole or any part   of the 
Page 4 of 15
business, profession, goodwill, 
assets, properties (movable or 
immovable), contracts, 
agreements, rights, privileges, 
effects, obligations and liabilities 
of any persons, firm or company 
or companies carrying on all or 
any of proposing to carry on or 
ceasing to  carry  on  any 
business, profession or activities 
which the company is authorized 
to carry on or the acquisition   of 
all or any of the properties, rights 
and assets of any company or 
subject to the provisions of   the 
Companies Act, 2013, the control 
and management of the 
company or the undertaking of    
the acquisitions of any other 
object or objects which in the 
opinion of the Company could or 
might directly or indirectly be 
beneficial or advantageous to 
the Company and to pay all or 
any    of the costs and expenses 
incurred in connection with any 
such promotion or incorporation 
or takeover or acquisition and to 
remunerate any person, firm or 
company in any manner, it shall 
think fit for services rendered or 
to be rendered for and in respect 
of such promotion or 
incorporation or takeover or 
acquisition or in obtaining 
subscription of or the placing of 
any  shares, stocks, bonds, 
debentures, obligations or 
securities of any such company 
or companies, subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013. 
 
5. 
Subject to the provisions 
of applicable law to procure 
registration, incorporation or 
recognition     of the Company in 
any country state or place and to 
establish and regulate agencies 
for the purpose of the company?
s business and to apply or join in 
applying to any parliament, local 
government, municipal or other 
authority or body,  Indian or 
foreign for any rights or 
privileges   that may seem 
conducive to the Company?s 
objects or any of them and to 
oppose any bills, proceedings or 
applications which may seem 
Page 5 of 15
calculated directly or indirectly to 
prejudice the Company?s 
interest. 
 
6. 
To enter into 
partnership, LLP or any 
arrangement for sharing or 
pooling profits, amalgamations, 
union of interest, co-operation, 
joint venture, reciprocal 
concessions or to amalgamate 
with any person or company 
carrying on or engaged in or 
about to carry on or engaged in 
any business, undertaking or 
transactions which this company 
is authorized to carry on or 
engaged in any business, 
undertaking or transactions 
which may seem capable of 
being carried on or conducted, 
so as directly or indirectly, to 
benefit the  company. 
 
7. 
To acquire or 
amalgamate, absorb or merge 
with any other company or 
companies or to form, promote 
subsidiaries having objects 
altogether or in part similar to 
those of this   company. 
 
8. 
To manage, sell, dispose 
off, let, mortgage, exchange, 
redeem, underlet, grant leases, 
licenses, easements or turn to 
account or otherwise dispose off 
in any manner the whole of the 
undertaking or any properties 
(movable or immovable), assets, 
rights, and effects of the 
Company or any    part thereof, 
on such terms and for such 
purposes and for such 
consideration as the company 
may think fit and in particular for 
shares, debentures, or securities 
of any other company having 
objects altogether or in part 
similar to those of this Company 
and in the event of winding up of 
the Company to distribute 
among the members in specie or 
kind any properties or assets of 
the Company or any proceeds of 
sale or disposal of any properties 
of the Company, subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013. 
 
Page 6 of 15
9. 
To enter into 
arrangements with any 
government or authority?s 
municipal, local or any persons   
or company in India or abroad 
that may seem conducive to the 
objects of the company or any of 
them and to apply for, secure, 
acquire, obtain from such 
government, authorities, persons 
or company any right, privileges, 
powers, authority, charters, 
contracts, licenses, concessions, 
grants, decrees, rights which the 
Company may think desirable. 
 
10. 
To pay all costs, charges 
and expenses of and incidental 
to the promotion, formation, 
registration and establishment of 
the Company and charges in 
connection therewith and/ or 
make donations (by cash or other 
assets) to remunerate by 
allotment of fully or partly paid 
shares or by a call or option on 
shares, debentures, debenture-
stocks or securities of this or any 
other company or in any other 
manner, whether out of the 
Company?s capital or profits to 
any person, firm, company 
assisting to place or 
guaranteeing the subscription of 
other security of the company in 
or about  the formation or 
promotion of the Company or for 
any other reason which the 
company may   think fit subject 
to the provisions of the 
Companies Act,  2013. 
 
11. 
To promote or join in the 
promotion of any company or 
companies including subsidiary 
companies (wholly owned or 
partly owned) for the purpose of 
acquiring all or any of the 
properties, rights   and liabilities 
of the company or for any other 
purposes which may seem 
directly or indirectly calculated to 
benefit the Company and to 
underwrite shares and securities   
therein. 
 
12. 
To do all or any of the 
above things in India or in any 
part of the world as principals, 
agents, contractors or trustees 
Page 7 of 15
and either alone or in 
conjunction with others. 
 
13. 
Subject to provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013 and the 
rules framed there under and the 
directives issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India, to borrow or raise 
money or to take money on  loan 
on interest from banks, financial 
institutions, government 
agencies, co-operative societies, 
persons, companies, firm, in such 
manner as the Company may 
think fit and in particular by the 
issue of debentures or 
debenture-stock, perpetual 
including debentures or 
debenture stock convertible into 
shares of this Company or 
perpetual annuities and in 
security of any such    money 
borrowed, raised or received to 
mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, 
or charge the whole or any part 
of the properties (movable or 
immovable) assets or revenue of 
the Company present    or future 
including its uncalled capital by 
special assignments or to transfer 
or convey the same absolutely or 
in trust and to give the lenders 
power of sale and other powers 
as may be deemed expedient 
and to purchase, redeem or pay 
off any such securities. The 
Company shall not carry on any 
banking or insurance business 
which may fall within the 
purview of Banking Regulations 
Act, 1949 or the Insurance Act, 
1938, respectively. 
 
14. 
To make, draw, accept, 
endorse, discount, execute, 
negotiate, assign, and issue 
Cheque, promissory notes, drafts, 
hundies, bonds, railway receipts, 
bills of exchange, bills of lading, 
warrants, debentures, and other 
negotiable or transferable   
instrument. 
 
15. 
To guarantee the 
payment of money secured or 
unsecured by or payable under 
or in respect of any promissory 
notes, bonds, debenture stocks, 
contracts, mortgages, charges, 
obligations, instruments and 
Page 8 of 15
securities of any company or of 
any authority, central, state, 
municipal, local       or of any 
person whomsoever whether 
incorporated or not incorporated 
and generally to guarantee or 
become sureties for the 
performance of any contracts or  
obligations  of  any  person, firm 
or company and to guarantee 
the repayment of loan with 
interest availed from Financial 
institution/s, Banks, Private 
Financiers, availed by any person, 
company, firm, society, trust or 
body  corporate. 
 
16. 
To guarantee or become 
liable for the performance of the 
obligations and the payment of 
interest on any debentures or 
securities of any company, 
corporation or association or a  
persons in which such 
guarantees may be considered 
beneficial or advantageous, 
directly or indirectly to further 
the objects of the Company or 
the interest of the   members. 
 
17. 
Subject to the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 to 
accumulate funds and to invest 
or deal   in with and invest 
money belonging to the 
Company in any deposits, shares, 
stocks, debentures, debenture-
stocks, kinds obligations, or 
securities by original 
subscription, participation in 
syndicates having similar objects 
and to tender, purchase, 
exchange and to subscribe for 
the same and to guarantee the 
subscription thereof and to 
exercise and enforce all the 
rights and powers conferred by 
or incidental to the ownership  
thereof. 
 
18. 
To open and operate 
current, overdrafts, loan, cash 
credit or deposit or any other 
type of accounts with any banks, 
company, firm, association or 
person. 
 
19. 
To establish, continue 
and support or aid in the 
establishment of cooperative 
Page 9 of 15
societies, association and other 
institutions, funds, trusts, 
amenities and conveniences 
calculated to benefit or 
indemnify or insure employees 
or ex-employees of the Company 
or Directors or ex-Directors of the 
Company or the dependents or 
connections of such persons and 
at its discretion to construct, 
maintain, buildings, houses, 
dwelling or chawls or to grant 
bonus, pensions and allowance 
and    to make payments towards 
insurance and to pay for 
charitable or benevolent objects, 
also to remunerate or make 
donations by cash or other assets 
or to remunerate by the 
allotment of shares credited as 
fully or partly paid for services 
rendered or to be rendered in 
placing or assisting to place any 
shares in the Company?s capital 
or any debentures, debenture-
stock or other securities of the 
company in or about the 
formation or promotion of the 
Company or for the conduct of 
its business. 
 
20. 
To undertake, carry out, 
promote and sponsor rural or 
semi urban or urban 
development including any 
programme for promoting the 
social and economic welfare or 
uplift of the public in any such 
area and to incur any 
expenditure on any programme 
of rural, semi-urban and urban 
development and to assist 
execution and promotion thereof 
either directly or through an 
independent agency or in any 
other manner. 
 
21. 
To undertake, carry out, 
promote and sponsor or assist 
any activity  for  the  promotion  
and growth of national economy 
and for the discharging of social 
and moral responsibilities of the 
Company to the public or any 
section of the public as also any 
activities to promote national 
welfare or social, economic and 
without prejudice to the 
generality of the foregoing, 
undertake, carry out, promote 
Page 10 of 15
and sponsor any activities for 
publication of any books, 
literature, news-  papers or for 
organizing lectures or seminars 
likely to advance these objects or 
for giving merit awards or 
scholarships, loans or any other 
assistance to deserving students 
or other scholars    or persons to 
enable them to prosecute their 
studies or academic pursuits or 
researches and      for 
establishing, conducting or 
assisting any institution, funds or 
trusts having any one of the 
aforesaid objects as one of its 
objects by giving donations and/
or contributions, subsidies and/    
or grants or in any other manner. 
 
22. 
To donate, gift, 
contribute, subscribe, promote, 
support or aid or assist or 
guarantee money to charitable, 
benevolent, religious, scientific, 
national, public or to other 
institutions, funds or objects, or 
for any public, general or other 
objects and to accept gifts, 
bequests devices and donations 
from any firm, company or 
persons as may be thought 
appropriate or conducive to     
the interest of the Company. 
 
23. 
To create any 
depreciation fund, reserve funds, 
sinking fund, insurance fund or 
any other special fund whether 
for depreciation or for repairing, 
improving, extending or 
maintaining any     of the 
properties of the Company or for 
redemption of debentures, 
redeemable preference shares or 
gratuity or pension or for any 
other purpose conducive to the 
interest of the Company. 
 
24. 
Subject to provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, to 
place, reserve, distribute, as 
dividend or bonus or to apply as 
the Company may from time to 
time determine any moneys 
received in payment of dividend 
or money arising from the sale of 
forfeited shares or any money 
received    by way of premium on 
shares or debentures issued at a 
Page 11 of 15
premium by the Company. 
 
25. 
To engage, employ, 
train, either in India or elsewhere, 
suspend and dismiss any agents, 
managers, superintendents, 
assistants, clerks, coolies other 
employees and to remunerate 
any such persons at such rate as 
shall be thought fit and to grant 
pensions or gratuities to any 
such person or to his widow or 
children and generally to provide 
for the welfare of   employees. 
 
26. 
To refer or agree to refer 
any claims, demands, disputes or 
any other questions by or against 
company or in which the 
company is interested or 
concerned and whether between 
the Company and the member or 
members or his or their 
representatives or between the 
Company and third party to 
arbitration in India or at any 
place outside India and to 
observe, perform and to do all 
acts, deeds, matters and things 
to carry out or enforce the 
awards. 
 
27. 
To use trademarks, trade 
names or brand names for the 
business activities products and 
goods and adopt such means of 
making known the business and 
products in which the company 
is dealing as may seem 
expedient and in particular by 
advertising on radio, television, 
newspapers, magazines, 
periodicals, by circulars, by 
opening stalls and exhibition, by 
publication of booksand 
periodicals, by distributing 
samples and by ranting prizes, 
rewards and awards. 
 
28. 
To undertake the 
payment of all rent and the 
performance of all covenants, 
contracts, conditions and 
agreements contained in and 
reserved by any lease that may 
be granted or assigned to or 
acquired by the Company. 
 
29. 
To become members of 
or to enter into any agreement 
Page 12 of 15
with any institution, association 
or company carrying on or which 
may carry on research and other 
scientific work of investigation in 
connection with any business of 
Company or other trades or 
industries allied therewith or 
ancillary thereto and to acquire 
shares in any such institutions, 
association or company and 
contribute towards the capital or 
funds, thereof. 
 
30. 
To undertake and 
execute any trust which may be 
beneficial to the Company 
directly or indirectly. 
 
31. 
To ensure properties, 
assets, undertakings, contracts, 
guarantees, liabilities, risks or 
obligations of the Company of 
every nature and kind. 
 
32. 
To receive donations, 
gifts, contributions, subsidies, 
grants, and other mode of 
receipts of money for the 
furtherance of the objects of the 
Company. 
 
33. 
To invest the funds of 
the Company not immediately 
required in Government or Semi 
Government corporations, 
companies or firms. 
 
34. 
To pay a share in the 
profit of the company or 
commission to brokers sub-
agents, agents or any other 
company, firm or person 
including the employees of the 
Company as may be thought fit    
for services rendered to the 
Company. 
 
35. 
To employ experts, to 
investigate and examine into the 
conditions prospects, value 
character and circumstances of 
any business concerns and 
undertaking and generally of any 
assets, concessions, properties 
and/or rights. 
 
36. 
To open establish, 
maintain and to discontinue in 
India or overseas any offices, 
branch offices, regional offices, 
Page 13 of 15
trade centers, exhibition centers, 
liaison offices and to keep local 
or resident representative in any 
part of the world for the purpose 
of promoting the business of  the 
company. 
 
37. 
To enter into 
arrangement for technical 
collaboration and/or other form 
of agreement including capital 
participation with a foreign or 
Indian company for the purpose 
of manufacture, quality control 
and product improvements and 
for marketing of the products 
which the Company is 
empowered to manufacture and/
or market and to pay or to 
receive for such technical 
assistance or collaborations, 
royalties or other fees in cash or 
by allotment of shares of the 
Company  credited as paid up or 
issue of debentures or 
debentures stock, subject to the 
provisions of     laws for the time 
being in force. 
 
38. 
To secure contracts for 
supply of the products 
manufactured by the company 
to military, civil   and other 
departments of the government 
or semi-government bodies, 
corporations, public or private 
contracts, firms or persons and to 
recruit trained persons including 
persons retired from defense, 
police, military and paramilitary 
forces to employ detectives. 
39. 
To take part in the 
management, supervision and 
control of the contracts, rights, 
turnkey jobs, operations or 
business of any company or 
undertaking entitled to carry on 
the business which   the 
company is authorized to carry 
on. 
4 The liability of the member(s) is limited, and this liability is limited to the amount unpaid if any, on the shares held by them. 
    The liability of the member(s) is limited 
    The liability of the member(s) is Unlimited 
5 Every member of the company undertakes to contribute:
Page 14 of 15
 (i) to the assets of the company in the event of its being wound up while he is a member, or within one year after he ceases to
    be a member, for payment of the debts and liabilities of the company or of such debts and liabilities as may have been 
    contracted before he ceases to be a member; and
 (ii) to the costs, charges and expenses of winding up (and for the adjustment of the rights of the contributories among
themselves), such amount as may be required, not exceeding *
rupees.
(iii) The share capital of the company is
rupees, divided into
100000
Equity Share
Shares of
10
Rupees each
10000
 
6
We, the several persons, whose names and address are subscribed, are desirous of being formed into a company in pursuance 
of this memorandum of association, and we respectively agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set 
against our respective names:
I, whose name and address is given below, am desirous of forming a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association 
and agree to take all the shares in the capital of the company:
We, the several persons, whose names and addresses are subscribed, are desirous of being formed into a company in pursuance 
of this memorandum of association:
Subscriber Details
S. No.
*Name, Address, Description and 
Occupation 
DIN / PAN / Passport 
number
No. of shares 
taken
DSC
Dated
1
CHALLA  JAGADEESH 76-16-53 new 
maseed street vijaywada urban   
kamakotinagar krishna  vijaywada 
Andhra Pradesh 520012 NA  India
08104415
800 Equity,0 
Preference
08104415
DIN1###
15/09/2023
2
YARRAPOTHU VENKATA NAGA DURGA 
BHAVANI HNO- 1-82 OOTPALLE   
SHAMSHABAD  RANGAREDDY Telangana 
509325 NA  India
08862545
200 Equity,0 
Preference
08862545
DIN2###
15/09/2023
Total shares taken
1000 Equity,0 
Preference
CHALLA 
JAGADEE
SH
Digitally signed by 
CHALLA 
JAGADEESH 
Date: 2023.09.15 
12:50:43 +05’30’
YARRAPOTH
U VENKATA 
NAGA DURGA 
BHAVANI
Digitally signed by 
YARRAPOTHU 
VENKATA NAGA 
DURGA BHAVANI 
Date: 2023.09.15 
12:55:34 +05’30’
Page 15 of 15
Signed before me
Membership type 
of the witness 
(ACA/FCA/ACS/FCS/
ACMA/FCMA)
*Name of the 
witness
*Address, 
Description and 
Occupation 
DIN / PAN / 
Passport number / 
Membership 
number
DSC
Dated
ACS
LABDHIKOCHAR
701-706, Priviera, Nr. 
Nehru Nagar Cross 
Roads, Patel Colony, 
Ambawadi, 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat 
380015
44913
44913
DIN3###
15/09/2023
7 Shri / Smt
Of
resident of
aged
years shall be the nominee in the event of death of the sole member.
LABDHI 
KOCHAR
Digitally signed by 
LABDHI KOCHAR 
Date: 2023.09.15 
13:05:45 +05’30’
5/22/24, 3:51 PM Ministry Of Corporate Affairs - MCA Services Ministry Of Corporate Affairs Date : 22-05-2024 3:51:51pm Director/Signatory Details Sr. Date of Cessation DIN/PAN Name Designation  Signatory No Appointment Date REVANTH VENKATA Additional 10633088 18/05/2024 Yes SAI Director KURICHETI RAJESH Additional 2 10633526 KUMAR 18/05/2024 Yes Director SRIRAM CHALLA 3 08104415 Director 15/09/2023 Yes JAGADEESH
(Amended) Government of India. Form GST REG-06 [See Rule 10(1)] Registration Certificate. Registration Number : 37AAGCJ1592F1ZH Legal Name JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED 2 Trade Name, if any JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Additional trade names, if 3. any Constitution of Business Private Limited Company 4 Address of Principal Place of . Floor No.: - Business Building No./FIat No.: DOOR NO. 76-16-53 Name Of Premises/BuiIding: VIJAYAWADA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, BHAVANIPUR Road/Street: URMILA NAGAR Nearby Landmark: REVENUE WARD 29A Locality/Sub Locality: Kamakoti Nagar City/Town/Village: Vijayawada District: NTR State: Andhra Pradesh PIN Code: 520012 6. Date of Liability Date of Validity From 12/12/2023 To Not Applicable < 8 Type of Registration Regular Particulars of Approving 9 Centre Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. Signature Signature yalid  Digitally signed S GOODS AND SERVICE AX NETWORK Date: 2024.10! .04 13:01:29 IST Name Chadalavada Srinivasa Rao Designation Superintendent Jurisdictional Office SAMARANGANAM CHOWK RANGE Date of issue of Certificate. 04/10/2024 State. on 04/10/2024 by the jurisdictional authority..
Annexure A. Goods and Services Tax Identification Number: 37AAGCJ1592F1ZH Details of Additional Place of Business(s) Legal Name JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Trade Name, if any. JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Additional trade names, if. any Total Number of Additional Places of Business(s) in the State
Annexure B Goods and Services Tax Identification Number: 37AAGCJ1592F1ZH Legal Name JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Trade Name, if any. JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Additional trade names, if any Tax Details of Managing / Whole-time Directors and Key Managerial Persons Name CHALLA JAGADEESH Designation/Status DIRECTOR Resident of State Andhra Pradesh  Name RAJESH KUMAR SRIRAM Designation/Status DIRECTOR Resident of State Andhra Pradesh Name REVANTH VENKATA SAI KURICHETI  Designation/Status DIRECTOR Resident of State Andhra Pradesh Goods ar
FORM GSTR-1
[See rule 59(1)]
Details of outward supplies of goods or services
Financial year
2024-25
Tax period
August
1
GSTIN
37AAGCJ1592F1ZH
2
(a)
Legal name of the registered person
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(b)
Trade name if any
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(c)
ARN
AA370824153864R
(d)
ARN date
11/09/2024
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
4A - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons (other than reverse charge supplies) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2B Regular
Total
36
Invoice
7,93,15,593.19
1,42,76,806.80
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
4B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons attracting tax on reverse charge - B2B Reverse charge
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs.2.5 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
6A – Exports (with/without payment)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6B - Supplies made to SEZ unit or SEZ developer - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6C - Deemed Exports – DE
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
7- Taxable supplies (Net of debit and credit notes) to unregistered persons (other than the supplies covered in Table 5) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2CS (Others)
IP Address: 49.204.228.24
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
8 - Nil rated, exempted and non GST outward supplies
Total
0.00
-  Nil
0.00
-  Exempted
0.00
-  Non-GST
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Regular
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Reverse charge
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs.2.5 lakh) in returns of earlier tax periods in table 5 - B2CL (Large)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Export supplies in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6A (EXPWP/EXPWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to supplies made to SEZ units or SEZ developers in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6B (SEZWP/SEZWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Deemed Exports in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6C (DE)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) – CDNR
IP Address: 49.204.228.24
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) – CDNUR
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) - CDNRA    
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) - CDNURA
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
IP Address: 49.204.228.24
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
10 - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to unregistered person in returns for earlier tax periods in table 7 including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2C (Others)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A(1), 11A(2) - Advances received for which invoice has not been issued (tax amount to be added to the output tax liability) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B(1), 11B(2) - Advance amount received in earlier tax period and adjusted against the supplies being shown in this tax period in Table Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7 (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A - Amendment to advances received in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11A(1), 11A(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B - Amendment to advances adjusted in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11B(1), 11B(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
12 - HSN-wise summary of outward supplies
Total
1
NA
7,93,15,593.20
1,42,76,806.80
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
13 - Documents issued
Net issued documents
36
All Documents
 
14 - Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
14A - Amended Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
IP Address: 49.204.228.24
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15 - Supplies U/s 9(5) 
Total
0
Document/Net 
Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  For Registered Recipients
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
  -  For Unregistered Recipient
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15A (I) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Registered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
 
15A (II) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Unregistered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
Total Liability (Outward supplies other than Reverse charge)
7,93,15,593.19
1,42,76,806.80
0.00
0.00
0.00
Verification:
I hereby solemnly affirm and declare that the information given herein above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed there from and in case 
of any reduction in output tax liability the benefit thereof has been/ will be passed on to the recipient of supply.
Date: 11/09/2024
Signature
Name of Authorized Signatory
REVANTH KURICHETI
Designation/Status: Additional Director
IP Address: 49.204.228.24
FINAL  
FORM GSTR-1
[See rule 59(1)]
Details of outward supplies of goods or services
Financial year
2024-25
Tax period
September
1
GSTIN
37AAGCJ1592F1ZH
2
(a)
Legal name of the registered person
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(b)
Trade name if any
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(c)
ARN
AA370924083263Y
(d)
ARN date
08/10/2024
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
4A - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons (other than reverse charge supplies) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2B Regular
Total
33
Invoice
5,29,98,881.65
95,32,209.69
3,794.49
3,794.49
0.00
 
4B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons attracting tax on reverse charge - B2B Reverse charge
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs.2.5 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
6A – Exports (with/without payment)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6B - Supplies made to SEZ unit or SEZ developer - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6C - Deemed Exports – DE
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
7- Taxable supplies (Net of debit and credit notes) to unregistered persons (other than the supplies covered in Table 5) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2CS (Others)
IP Address: 49.205.106.191
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
8 - Nil rated, exempted and non GST outward supplies
Total
0.00
-  Nil
0.00
-  Exempted
0.00
-  Non-GST
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Regular
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Reverse charge
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs.2.5 lakh) in returns of earlier tax periods in table 5 - B2CL (Large)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Export supplies in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6A (EXPWP/EXPWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to supplies made to SEZ units or SEZ developers in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6B (SEZWP/SEZWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Deemed Exports in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6C (DE)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) – CDNR
IP Address: 49.205.106.191
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) – CDNUR
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) - CDNRA    
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) - CDNURA
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
IP Address: 49.205.106.191
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
10 - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to unregistered person in returns for earlier tax periods in table 7 including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2C (Others)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A(1), 11A(2) - Advances received for which invoice has not been issued (tax amount to be added to the output tax liability) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B(1), 11B(2) - Advance amount received in earlier tax period and adjusted against the supplies being shown in this tax period in Table Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7 (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A - Amendment to advances received in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11A(1), 11A(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B - Amendment to advances adjusted in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11B(1), 11B(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
12 - HSN-wise summary of outward supplies
Total
5
NA
5,29,98,881.74
95,32,209.72
3,794.49
3,794.49
0.00
 
13 - Documents issued
Net issued documents
33
All Documents
 
14 - Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
14A - Amended Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
IP Address: 49.205.106.191
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15 - Supplies U/s 9(5) 
Total
0
Document/Net 
Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  For Registered Recipients
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
  -  For Unregistered Recipient
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15A (I) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Registered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
 
15A (II) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Unregistered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
Total Liability (Outward supplies other than Reverse charge)
5,29,98,881.65
95,32,209.69
3,794.49
3,794.49
0.00
Verification:
I hereby solemnly affirm and declare that the information given herein above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed there from and in case 
of any reduction in output tax liability the benefit thereof has been/ will be passed on to the recipient of supply.
Date: 08/10/2024
Signature
Name of Authorized Signatory
REVANTH KURICHETI
Designation/Status: DIRECTOR
IP Address: 49.205.106.191
FINAL  
FORM GSTR-1
[See rule 59(1)]
Details of outward supplies of goods or services
Financial year
2024-25
Tax period
October
1
GSTIN
37AAGCJ1592F1ZH
2
(a)
Legal name of the registered person
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(b)
Trade name if any
JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED
(c)
ARN
AA371024068937V
(d)
ARN date
07/11/2024
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
4A - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons (other than reverse charge supplies) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2B Regular
Total
69
Invoice
12,78,91,759.37
2,30,20,516.65
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
4B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons attracting tax on reverse charge - B2B Reverse charge
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
6A – Exports (with/without payment)
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6B - Supplies made to SEZ unit or SEZ developer - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
6C - Deemed Exports – DE
Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
7- Taxable supplies (Net of debit and credit notes) to unregistered persons (other than the supplies covered in Table 5) including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2CS (Others)
IP Address: 106.221.185.38
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
8 - Nil rated, exempted and non GST outward supplies
Total
0.00
-  Nil
0.00
-  Exempted
0.00
-  Non-GST
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Regular
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to registered person in returns of earlier tax periods in table 4 - B2B Reverse charge
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) in returns of earlier tax periods in table 5 - B2CL (Large)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Export supplies in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6A (EXPWP/EXPWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to supplies made to SEZ units or SEZ developers in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6B (SEZWP/SEZWOP)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWP
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  SEZWOP
0
Invoice
0.00
 
9A - Amendment to Deemed Exports in returns of earlier tax periods in table 6C (DE)
Amended amount - Total
0
Invoice
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) – CDNR
IP Address: 106.221.185.38
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net Total (Debit notes – Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9B - Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) – CDNUR
Total - Net off debit/credit notes (Debit notes - Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) - CDNRA    
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Regular
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 4 other than table 6 - B2B Reverse charge
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6B - SEZWP/SEZWOP
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Amended Credit / Debit notes issued to registered person for taxable outward supplies in table 6C – DE
Net total (Net Amended Debit notes - Net Amended 
Credit notes)
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
9C - Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) - CDNURA
Amended amount - Total
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net Differential amount (Net Amended Debit notes - Net 
Amended Credit notes) - Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
Unregistered Type 
IP Address: 106.221.185.38
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
-  B2CL
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWP
0
Note
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  EXPWOP
0
Note
0.00
 
10 - Amendment to taxable outward supplies made to unregistered person in returns for earlier tax periods in table 7 including supplies made through e-commerce operator attracting TCS - B2C (Others)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A(1), 11A(2) - Advances received for which invoice has not been issued (tax amount to be added to the output tax liability) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B(1), 11B(2) - Advance amount received in earlier tax period and adjusted against the supplies being shown in this tax period in Table Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7 (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11A - Amendment to advances received in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11A(1), 11A(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
11B - Amendment to advances adjusted in returns for earlier tax periods in table 11B(1), 11B(2) (Net of refund vouchers, if any)
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
12 - HSN-wise summary of outward supplies
Total
2
NA
12,78,91,759.72
2,30,20,516.71
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
13 - Documents issued
Net issued documents
69
All Documents
 
14 - Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
14A - Amended Supplies made through E-Commerce Operators
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(a) Liable to collect tax u/s 52
IP Address: 106.221.185.38
FINAL  
Description
No. of 
records
Document 
Type
Value (₹)
Integrated Tax (₹)
Central Tax (₹)
State/UT Tax (₹)
Cess (₹)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(b) Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
Amended amount – Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15 - Supplies U/s 9(5) 
Total
0
Document/Net 
Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
-  For Registered Recipients
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
  -  For Unregistered Recipient
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
15A (I) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Registered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     Regular
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     DE
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWP
0
Document
0.00
0.00
0.00
  -     SEZWOP
0
Document
0.00
 
15A (II) - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) – For Unregistered Recipients
Amended amount - Total
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Net differential amount (Amended - Original)
0
Net Value
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
Total Liability (Outward supplies other than Reverse charge)
12,78,91,759.37
2,30,20,516.65
0.00
0.00
0.00
Verification:
I hereby solemnly affirm and declare that the information given herein above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed there from and in case 
of any reduction in output tax liability the benefit thereof has been/ will be passed on to the recipient of supply.
Date: 07/11/2024
Signature
Name of Authorized Signatory
CHALLA JAGADEESH
Designation/Status: DIRECTOR
IP Address: 106.221.185.38
FINAL  
9Rd RR AADHAAR t of India aJ8e eeo r*a'83w / INFORMATION Government of India e3o eQ5 3ow5 xfy5 33w8yow3 DeoQ3ee* 58yy D83 36 . 6 ew5 Jaw UIDAI DowQoW3 33rcs8n D32y wS0: e5g5 aJ8e D3y 80 I8s8 %0 cso go  ar5 g5ee oerewe y mAadhaar e5QR5  www.uidai.gov.ine Unique Identification Authority of India eowerewS 3y woe QR S& 65 or5 arAo QR S& 8a9$35/ Enrolment No.: 2189/50167/54751 eo cgg osse9 To wg aXQ5 Challa Jagadeesh  S/O Challa Venkateswara Rao, 76-16-53, . new maseed street, 5 3w5 Sow5 w8ow 6-3w5 & ew5  e5e5 3soe. VTC: Vijayawada (Urban) 5 mAadhaar s PO: Kamakotinagar. Sub District: Vijayawada (urban), District: Krishna, e5/e5e5 eg5/w3e5x5no3oc State: Andhra Pradesh, PIN Code: 520012, Mobile: 9700747401 Aadhaar is proof of identity,not of citizenship or date of birth (DOB).DOB regulations,submitted byAadhaar number holder.  This Aadhaar letter should be verified through either online authentication by UIDAI-appointed authentication agency or QR code scanning using mAadhaar or Aadhaar QR Scanner app available in app stores or using secure QR code reader app available on www.uidai.gov.in. Aadhaar is unique and secure. Signature yalid  Documents to support identity and address should be updated in Aadhaar after every 10 years from date of enrolment for Aadhaar. Aadhaar helps you avail of various Government and Non- Government benefits/services. 3 esw5 oas / Your Aadhaar No. : Keep your mobile number and email id updated in Aadhaar. Download mAadhaar app to avail of Aadhaar services. 2614 7714 3808  Use the feature of Lock/Unlock Aadhaar/biometrics to ensure VID : 9164 0362 8665 2345 security when not using Aadhaar/biometrics. ~ e9Q5,  X80 Entities seeking Aadhaar are obligated to seek consent. o Government of India  Unique Identification Authority of India wg aXQ5 S/O so 305e 8 05, 76-16-53, 3s 355 e5 Challa Jagadeesh tDa5 e8y Sg33 38/DOB: 25/11/1989 20012 8xx/ MALE Address: S/O Challa Venkateswara Rao, 76-16-53,  9P  Spea C Cog  ga new maseed street, Vijayawada (Urban), PO: s.5 Kamakotinagar, DiST: Krishna, Andhra Pradesh - 520012 Aadhaar is proof of identity, not of citizenship or date of birth.It should be used with verification (online authentication, or scanning of QR code / offline XML). 2614 7714 3808 2614 7714 3808 VID : 9164 0362 8665 2345 e8Q5 1947 help@uidai.gov.in|  www.uidai.gov.in
GOVERNMENT OFINDIA  Go 5 Scanned By Scanner  Sriram Rajesh Kumar goydYar ol th 1908 Male 327000211800 2~88803858303 UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION AUTHORITY OF INDIA Scanned By Scanner Go Address: S/O: 503058 Venkateswararao, 1-3/24-10/3.-865 1-3/24-10/3PARDHA 5.80 SARADHISTREET, w c5.swsuxx CEMENT ROAD, 520012 VIDYADARAPURAMI, Vijayawada (Urban),Krishna, Kamakotinagar,Andhra Pradesh,520012 www www.uidal.gov.in ..1947. 1947 help@uidai.gov.in
HRRCR GOVERNMENTOFINDIA se Kuricheti Revanth Venkata Sai DOB:30-11-1994 Gender:Male 330597374128 3-3G3 UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION AUTHORITY-OFINDIA tale AAdesss S/003,17-4-61/4, S/o KurichetiGopalam,17-4-61/4, 5.586 David Street,Masjid Center, aso Pezzoni Pet, Vijayawada (urban), Saccoos,s.eogs, Gandhinagaram,Vijayawada 520003 (urban),Krishna,Andhra Pradesh 520003 X www P.O.BoxNo.1947 18003001947 help@uldal.gov.in www.uldal.gov.ln Bengaluru-560 001
