business, profession, goodwill, assets, properties (movable or immovable), contracts, agreements, rights, privileges, effects, obligations and liabilities of any persons, firm or company or companies carrying on all or any of proposing to carry on or. ceasing to carry on any business, profession or activities which the company is authorized. to carry on or the acquisition of all or any of the properties, rights and assets of any company or subject to the provisionsof the Companies Act, 2013, the control and management of the company or the undertaking of the acquisitions of any other object or objects which in the opinion of the Company could or might directly or indirectly be beneficial or advantageousto the Company and to pay all or any of the costsand expenses incurred in connection with any such promotion or incorporation or takeover or acquisition and to remunerate any person, firm or company in any manner, it shall think fit for services rendered or to be rendered for and in respect of such promotion or incorporation or takeover or. acquisition or in obtaining subscription of or the placing of any shares, stocks, bonds, debentures, obligations or securities of any such company or companies, subject to the. provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 5. Subject to the provisions Of applicable law to procure registration, incorporation or recognition  of the Company in any country state or place and to establish and regulate agencies for the purpose of the company? sbusiness and to apply or join in applying to any parliament, local government, municipal or other authority or body, Indian or foreign for any rightsor privileges that may seem conducive to the Company?s objects or any of them and to oppose any bills, proceedings or applications which may seem  Page 4 of 15
calculated directly or indirectly to prejudice the Company?s interest. To enter into. 6. partnership, LLP or any arrangement for sharing or pooling profits, amalgamations, union of interest, co-operation, joint venture, reciprocal concessions or to amalgamate with any person or company carrying on or engaged in or about to carry on or engaged in any business, undertaking or transactions which this company is authorized to carry on or engaged in any business, undertaking or transactions which may seem capable of being carried on or conducted, so as directly or indirectly, to benefit the company. To acquire or. 7. amalgamate, absorb or merge with any other company or companies or to form, promote subsidiaries having objects altogether or in part similar to those of this company. To manage, sell, dispose 8. off, let, mortgage, exchange, redeem, underlet, grant leases, licenses, easements or turn to account or otherwise dispose off in any manner the whole of the undertaking or any properties (movable or immovable), assets, rights, and effectsof the Company or any part thereof, on such terms and for such purposes and for such consideration as the company may think fit and in particular for shares, debentures, or securities of any other company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of this Company and in the event of winding up of the Company to distribute among the membersin specie or kind any properties or assets of the Company or any proceeds of sale or disposal of any properties of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Page 5 of 15
9. To enter into. arrangements with any government or authority?s municipal, local or any persons or company in India or abroad that may seem conducive to the objects of the company or any of them and to apply for, secure, acquire, obtain from such government, authorities, persons or company any right, privileges, powers, authority, charters, contracts, licenses, concessions, grants, decrees, rights which the Company may think desirable. 10. To pay all costs, charges and expenses of and incidental to the promotion, formation, registration and establishment of the Company and chargesin connection therewith and/ or make donations (by cash or other assets) to remunerate by allotment of fully or partly paid shares or by a call or option on shares, debentures, debenture- stocks or securities of this or any other company or in any other manner, whether out of the Company?s capital or profitsto any person, firm, company assisting to place or. guaranteeing the subscription of other security of the company in or about the formation or promotion of the Company or for any other reason which the company may think fit subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.  To promote or join in the 11. promotion of any company or companies including subsidiary companies (wholly owned or partly owned) for the purpose of acquiring all or any of the properties, rights and liabilities Of the company or for any other purposes which may seem directly or indirectly calculated to benefit the Company and to underwrite shares and securities therein. 12. To do all or any of the above thingsin India or in any part of the world as principals, agents, contractors or trustees  Page 6 of 15
and either alone or in conjunction with others. 13. Subject to provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed there under and the directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India, to borrow or raise money or to take money on loan on interest from banks, financial institutions, government agencies, co-operative societies, persons, companies, firm, in such manner asthe Company may think fit and in particular by the issue of debentures or debenture-stock, perpetual including debentures or debenture stock convertible into shares of this Company or perpetual annuities and in security of any such money borrowed, raised or received to mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, or charge the whole or any part of the properties (movable or immovable) assets or revenue of the Company present or future including its uncalled capital by special assignments or to transfer or convey the same absolutely or in trust and to give the lenders power of sale and other powers as may be deemed expedient and to purchase, redeem or pay off any such securities. The Company shall not carry on any banking or insurance business which may fall within the purview of Banking Regulations Act, 1949 or the Insurance Act, 1938, respectively. 14. To make, draw, accept, endorse, discount, execute, negotiate, assign, and issue Cheque, promissory notes, drafts, hundies, bonds, railway receipts, bills of exchange, bills of lading, warrants, debentures, and other negotiable or transferable instrument. 15. To guarantee the payment of money secured or unsecured by or payable under or in respect of any promissory notes, bonds, debenture stocks, contracts, mortgages, charges, obligations, instruments and Page 7 of 15
securities of any company or of any authority, central, state, municipal, local  or of any person whomsoever whether incorporated or not incorporated and generally to guarantee or become sureties for the performance of any contracts or obligations of any person, firm or company and to guarantee the repayment of loan with interest availed from Financial institution/s, Banks, Private Financiers, availed by any person, company, firm, society, trust or body corporate. 16. To guarantee or become liable for the performance of the obligations and the payment of interest on any debentures or securities of any company, corporation or association or a personsin which such guarantees may be considered beneficial or advantageous, directly or indirectly to further the objects of the Company or the interest of the members. 17. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 to accumulate funds and to invest or deal in with and invest money belonging to the Company in any deposits, shares, stocks, debentures, debenture- stocks, kinds obligations, or securities by original subscription, participation in syndicates having similar objects and to tender, purchase, exchange and to subscribe for the same and to guarantee the subscription thereof and to exercise and enforce all the rights and powers conferred by or incidental to the ownership thereof. 18. To open and operate current, overdrafts, loan, cash credit or deposit or any other type of accounts with any banks, company, firm, association or person. 19. To establish, continue and support or aid in the establishment of cooperative  Page 8 of 15
societies, association and other institutions, funds, trusts, amenities and conveniences calculated to benefit or indemnify or insure employees or ex-employees of the Company or Directors or ex-Directors of the Company or the dependentsor connections of such persons and at its discretion to construct, maintain, buildings, houses, dwelling or chawls or to grant bonus, pensions and allowance and to make paymentstowards insurance and to pay for charitable or benevolent objects, also to remunerate or make donationsby cash or other assets or to remunerate by the allotment of shares credited as fully or partly paid for services rendered or to be rendered in placing or assisting to place any shares in the Company?s capital or any debentures, debenture- stock or other securities of the company in or about the formation or promotion of the Company or for the conduct of its business. 20. To undertake, carry out, promote and sponsor rural or semi urban or urban development including any programme for promoting the social and economic welfare or uplift of the public in any such area and to incur any expenditure on any programme of rural, semi-urban and urban development and to assist execution and promotion thereof either directly or through an independent agency or in any Other manner. 21. To undertake, carry out, promote and sponsor or assist any activity for the promotion and growth of national economy and for the discharging of social and moral responsibilities of the Company to the public or any section of the public as also any activitiesto promote national welfare or social, economic and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, undertake, carry out, promote  Page 9 of 15
and sponsor any activities for publication of any books, literature, news- papersor for organizing lectures or seminars likely to advance these objects or for giving merit awards or scholarships, loans or any other assistance to deserving students or other scholars or personsto enable them to prosecute their studies or academic pursuits or researches and for establishing, conducting or assisting any institution, funds or trusts having any one of the aforesaid objects as one of its objectsby giving donations and/ or contributions, subsidies and/ or grants or in any other manner. 22. To donate, gift, contribute, subscribe, promote, support or aid or assist or guarantee money to charitable, benevolent, religious, scientific, national, public or to other institutions, funds or objects, or for any public, general or other objects and to accept gifts, bequests devices and donations from any firm, company or persons as may be thought appropriate or conducive to the interest of the Company. 23. To create any depreciation fund, reserve funds, sinking fund, insurance fund or any other special fund whether for depreciation or for repairing, improving, extending or maintaining any of the properties of the Company or for redemption of debentures, redeemable preference shares or gratuity or pension or for any other purpose conducive to the interest of the Company. 24. Subject to provisionsof the Companies Act, 2013, to place, reserve, distribute, as dividend or bonus or to apply as the Company may from time to time determine any moneys received in payment of dividend or money arising from the sale of forfeited shares or any money received by way of premium on shares or debentures issued at a  Page 10 of 15
premium by the Company 25. To engage, employ,. train, either in India or elsewhere,. suspend and dismiss any agents, managers, superintendents, assistants, clerks, coolies other employees and to remunerate. any such persons at such rate as Shall be thought fit and to grant pensions or gratuitiesto any such person or to his widow or children and generally to provide for the welfare of employees. 26.  To refer or agree to refer any claims, demands, disputes or any other questions by or against company or in which the company isinterested or concerned and whether between the Company and the member or members or his or their representatives or between the Company and third party to arbitration in India or at any place outside India and to observe, perform and to do all acts, deeds, matters and things to carry out or enforce the awards. 27. To use trademarks, trade names or brand names for the. business activities products and goods and adopt such means of making known the business and productsin which the company is dealing as may seem expedient and in particular by advertising on radio, television, newspapers, magazines, periodicals, by circulars, by opening stalls and exhibition, by publication of booksand periodicals, by distributing samples and by ranting prizes, rewards and awards. 28. To undertake the. payment of all rent and the performance of all covenants, contracts, conditions and agreements contained in and. reserved by any lease that may be granted or assigned to or acquired by the Company. 29. To become members of or to enter into any agreement Page 11 of 15
with any institution, association or company carrying on or which may carry on research and other scientific work of investigation in connection with any business of Company or other trades or industries allied therewith or ancillary thereto and to acquire shares in any such institutions, association or company and contribute towardsthe capital or funds, thereof. 30. To undertake and execute any trust which may be beneficial to the Company directly or indirectly. 31. To ensure properties, assets, undertakings, contracts, guarantees, liabilities, risks or obligations of the Company of every nature and kind. 32. To receive donations, gifts, contributions, subsidies, grants, and other mode of receipts of money for the furtherance of the objects of the Company. To invest the funds of 33 the Company not immediately required in Government or Semi Government corporations, companies or firms. 34.  To pay a share in the profit of the company or commission to brokers sub- agents, agents or any other company, firm or person including the employees of the Company as may be thought fit for services rendered to the Company. 35. To employ experts, to. investigate and examine into the conditions prospects, value character and circumstances of any business concerns and undertaking and generally of any assets, concessions, properties and/or rights. 36. To open establish, maintain and to discontinue in India or overseas any offices, branch offices, regional offices,  Page 12 of 15
trade centers, exhibition centers, liaison offices and to keep local or resident representative in any part of the world for the purpose of promoting the business of the company. 37. To enter into arrangement for technical collaboration and/or other form of agreement including capital participation with a foreign or Indian company for the purpose Of manufacture, quality control and product improvements and for marketing of the products which the Company is empowered to manufacture and/ or market and to pay or to receive for such technical assistance or collaborations, royalties or other fees in cash or by allotment of shares of the Company credited aspaid up or issue of debentures or debentures stock, subject to the provisionsof lawsfor the time being in force.. 38. To secure contracts for supply of the products manufactured by the company to military, civil and other departments of the government or semi-government bodies, corporations, public or private contracts, firms or persons and to recruit trained personsincluding persons retired from defense, police, military and paramilitary forcesto employ detectives. 39. To take part in the. management, supervision and control of the contracts, rights, turnkey jobs, operations or business of any company or undertaking entitled to carry on the business which the company is authorized to carry on. 4 The liability of the member(s) is limited, and this liability is limited to the amount unpaid if any, on the shares held by them. The liability of the member(s) is limited The liability of the member(s) is Unlimited 5 Every member of the company undertakes to contribute: Page 13 of 15
be a member, for payment of the debts and liabilities of the company or of such debts and liabilities as may have been contracted before he ceases to be a member; and. themselves), such amount as may be required, not exceeding.  rupees. (ii) The share capital of the company is. rupees, divided into. 100000 Equity Share  Shares of 10 Rupees each 10000 6 We, the several persons, whose names and address are subscribed, are desirous of being formed into a company in pursuance. of this memorandum of association, and we respectively agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set. against our respective names: I, whose name and address is given below, am desirous of forming a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association. We, the several persons, whose names and addresses are subscribed, are desirous of being formed into a company in pursuance. of this memorandum of association: Subscriber Details *Name, Address, Description and DIN/ PAN/ Passport No. of shares S. No. DSC Dated Occupation number taken CHALLA JAGADEESH 76-16-53 new CHALLACigia HS  maseed street vijaywada urban 800 Equity,0 08104415 15/09/2023 kamakotinagar krishna vijaywada  Preference Andhra Pradesh 520012 NA India YARRAPOTHU VENKATA NAGA DURGA  BHAVANI HNO- 1-82 OOTPALLE 200 Equity,0 2 15/09/2023 08862545 SHAMSHABAD RANGAREDDY Telangana  Preference 509325 NA India 1000 Equity,0 Total shares taken.  Preference Page 14 of 15
Signed before me Membership type DIN/ PAN/ * Address, *Name of the of the witness Passport number Description and DSC Dated Membership (ACA/FCA/ACS/FCS witness Occupation ACMA/FCMA) number  701-706, Priviera, Nr. Nehru Nagar Cross Roads, Patel Colony, 44913 ACS 15/09/2023 LABDHIKOCHAR Ambawadi, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380015 7 Shri / Smt JO resident of aged years shall be the nominee in the event of death of the sole member. Page 15 of 15
5/22/24, 3:51 PM  Ministry Of Corporate Affairs - MCA Services Ministry Of Corporate Affairs Date : 22-05-2024 3:51:51pm Director/Signatory Details Sr. Date of Cessation DIN/PAN  Name Designation Signatory No Appointment Date REVANTH VENKATA Additional 10633088 18/05/2024 Yes 1 SAI Director KURICHETI RAJESH Additional 18/05/2024 Yes 2 10633526 KUMAR Director SRIRAM CHALLA 3 08104415 Director 15/09/2023 Yes JAGADEESH
(Amended) Government of India Form GST REG-06 [See Rule 10(1)] Registration Certificate Registration Number : 37AAGCJ1592F1ZH Legal Name JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Trade Name, if any JCSGLOBAL PRIVATE LIMITED Additional trade names, if any Constitution of Business Private Limited Company Address of Principal Place of Floor No.: - Business Building No./FIat No.: DOOR NO. 76-16-53 Name Of Premises/BuiIding: VIJAYAWADA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, BHAVANIPUR Road/Street: URMILA NAGAR Nearby Landmark: REVENUE WARD 29A Locality/Sub Locality: Kamakoti Nagar City/Town/Village: Vijayawada District: NTR State: Andhra Pradesh PIN Code: 520012 6 Date of Liability Date of Validity 12/12/2023 To Not Applicable From I . 8 Type of Registration Regular 9. Particulars of Approving Centre Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 Signature Signature yalid Digitally s S GOODS AND SERV AX NETWORK Date: 2024.1 4 13:01:29 IST Name Chadalavada Srinivasa Rao Designation Superintendent Jurisdictional Office SAMARANGANAM CHOWK RANGE Date of issue of Certificate 04/10/2024 Note: The registration certificate is required to be prominently displayed at all places of Business/Office(s) in the State. on 04/10/2024 by the jurisdictional authority..
