 
  Elephants Counting and Detection Using      
YOLOV5        
 
  
 
Abstract— Object detection now a days is popularly used 
in most vision-based AI and it is sole to the various computer 
vision tasks like face recognition ,Animal detection . This 
paper is regarding the detection and counting of elephants 
using YOLOv5 from drone images as drones allows you to 
cover large areas and enables quick and efficient monitoring 
of wildlife .YOLOv5 is the first YOLO model to be written in 
PyTorch framework which is fast and accurate .As every 
species plays a crucial role in the ecosystem ,extinction of one 
specie may cause damage to entire ecosystem . So it is 
important to detect the endangered species and ensure their 
protection. In this project we make use of YOLO algorithm 
to detect and count the endangered species from drone 
images .In this project we have taken elephant as a reference 
as the population of elephant is declining over several decades 
due to poaching and loss of habitat . Existing model only has 
detection of animal so we added counting of animals to 
increase its efficiency. 
Keywords-object detection,YOLOv5,drone images ,elephant . 
I.  INTRODUCTION    
The coexistence of humans and wildlife is essential for 
maintaining the ecological balance of our planet. However, 
in many regions, human activities and urbanization have 
encroached on the natural habitats of various species, 
leading to increased human-wildlife conflicts and 
threatening the survival of several iconic and endangered 
animals. Among these vulnerable species, the elephant, 
with its immense cultural, ecological, and conservation 
value, stands as a symbol of the challenges and 
opportunities in wildlife preservation. 
 
To mitigate the impacts of these conflicts and protect 
elephant populations, it is crucial to monitor their 
movements, behaviors, and habitats efficiently. Traditional 
methods of data collection and monitoring, such as ground-
based surveys and camera traps, have proven useful but are 
often time-consuming, expensive, and labor-intensive. In 
recent years, technological advancements have opened up 
new horizons for wildlife monitoring and conservation. 
One such innovation is the utilization of Unmanned Aerial 
Vehicles (UAVs) or drones equipped with advanced 
computer vision algorithms. 
This document focuses on the application of the YOLO 
(You Only Look Once) algorithm to the crucial task of 
elephant species detection from drone images. YOLO is an 
object detection algorithm renowned for its speed and 
accuracy, making it an ideal choice for real-time 
applications. By leveraging the capabilities of YOLO and 
deploying drones equipped with cameras, we aim to 
revolutionize the way we monitor and safeguard elephant 
populations. 
 
                          II.LITERATURE REVIEW 
1.Title:Using very-high-resolution satellite imagery and deep 
learning to detect and count African elephants in 
heterogeneous landscapes 
Authors:Isla Duporge, Olga Isupova, Steven Reece, David 
W. Macdonald, Tiejun Wang 
Publication:ZSL publication 
Summary:This paper is about a deep learning algorithm 
Faster R-CNN Inception ResNet V2 model that is trained in 
tensorflow object detection api. We used YOLO algorithm as 
YOLO performs better in terms of accuracy, speed and 
efficiency than Faster R-CNN . 
 
2.Title:Improved object detection algorithm for drone 
captured dataset based on yolov5. 
Authors:Kaiwen Ding,Xianjiang Li ,Weijie Guo ,Liaoni Wu. 
Publication:IEEE Xplore 
Summary:This paper explores fundamentals of YOLOv5 
model to detect objects from images and here the objects 
detected by them are cars.We used YOLOv5 by taking this 
paper as a reference and implemented on elephant drone 
images. 
 
3.Title: An Elephant Detection System to Prevent Human-
Elephant Conflict and Tracking of Elephant Using Deep 
Learning. 
Authors:K.S.P.Premarathna; R.M.K.T.Rathnayaka;J.Charles 
Publication:IEEE 
Summary:In this project,they used a data set containing 
elephants and developed an approach to distinguish elephants 
and other animals and used the Convolutional Neural 
Network. 
4. Title: Research on improved YOLOv5 face mask 
recognition     algorithm based on 
Authors:Yan Zhang;Ying Cuan;Yuxin Jiang 
Publication:IEEE  
Summary:In this paper, they applied YOLOv5 with 
combination of different attention mechanisms like SE,CA 
and CBAMc3 which increased the accuracy of YOLOv5 
model for improved face mask recognition. 
 
III. METHODOLOGY AND RELATED WORK  
In this part, we will firstly introduce the traditional structure 
of yolov5.  
 
 
 
                                                 Figure 1. Yolov5s structure  
Backbone Network: 
YOLOv5 uses a backbone network based on CSPDarknet53 
or EfficientNet as the feature extraction backbone. The 
choice of the backbone allows for better feature 
representation and contributes significantly to accuracy. 
Neck and Head: 
YOLOv5 introduces a novel "neck" and "head" structure that 
refines and processes features at different scales. This helps 
in improving detection accuracy for objects of varying sizes. 
 
Input Layer: 
The input layer takes the image as input. YOLO typically 
takes images of fixed sizes as input, which are divided into a 
grid for processing. 
Convolutional Layers: 
YOLO primarily consists of convolutional layers that 
perform feature extraction. These layers analyze the input 
image to extract hierarchical representations of features. 
Downsampling Layers: 
Downsampling or pooling layers reduce the spatial 
dimensions of the feature maps while increasing the 
receptive field. This helps in capturing context and reducing 
computation. 
 
Concatenation and Upsampling layers: 
In some YOLO variants, concatenation or upsampling layers 
are used to fuse features from different scales or increase the 
spatial resolution of feature maps for better object 
localization. 
Output Layer: 
The output layer contains the final predictions of bounding 
boxes, confidence scores, and class probabilities. These 
predictions are then post-processed to identify and draw 
bounding boxes around detected objects. 
 
Now we will explain the steps to be followed to train custom 
YOLOv5  model. 
 
         
     
                                     Figure 2. Methodology 
A. Dataset Creation 
As the project is regarding elephants drone images 
,so collect the images of elephants drone images 
from various resources like google and save them 
in a folder. The images should be like Figure 3. 
 
                                   Figure 3. Elephant drone image 
B. Annotate Dataset 
For annotation the images should be in .png or .jpg 
format. Objects can be annotate inside the images 
of dataset using labels like bounding boxes .After 
completion the annotations will be generated as text 
file to be used in YOLOv5 custom model training 
as shown in Figure 4. 
 
     
                                         Figure 4. .Annotations 
 
 
C. Dataset classification 
Here we randomly split the dataset images into train 
,test , val by allocating 80% of images  to train ,10% 
to val and remaining 10% to test .This kind of 
classification is required to train custom YOLOv5 
model otherwise it will show error . 
 
D. Data Preprocessing 
Upload the dataset in Roboflow and apply 
preprocessing  techniques . 
This techniques are used to decrease time and 
increase 
performance 
by 
applying 
image 
transformations to all images in this dataset. Here 
we used preprocessing techniques like Resize and 
Auto orient. 
Image resizing is a fundamental preprocessing step 
in object detection pipelines. It standardizes input 
dimensions, enhances computational efficiency, 
and contributes to the model's ability to generalize 
and detect objects effectively in various scenarios. 
Images might have different orientations (e.g., 
landscape, portrait) that can affect the accuracy of 
object detection algorithms if not handled properly. 
The "auto orient" preprocessing step, often 
associated with images, refers to an operation that 
automatically adjusts the orientation of an image 
based on its metadata. 
 
We can also apply augmentation for our dataset like 
flip, crop to increase the efficiency of yolov5 
model. 
 
Now generate the dataset by applying above 
modifications and export dataset in YOLOv5 PyTorch 
format.Then it will generate a snippet as shown in 
Figure 5 which is used further in YOLOv5 custom 
model training. 
 
                     Figure 5. Snippet to download and unzip our dataset 
 
E. Training of custom YOLOv5 model in google colab 
 
Install requirements: 
Clone YOLOv5 repository from github  and install 
all required dependencies. 
 
Assemble the  Dataset: 
Assemble the dataset uploaded in Roboflow using 
the snippet in Figure 4. 
 
Train our custom YOLOv5 model: 
 
We train the custom YOLOv5 model using below 
code 
!python train.py --img 416 --batch 16 --epochs 
150 --data {dataset.location}/data.yaml --weights 
yolov5s.pt --cache 
 
Here dataset.location is the location where our 
dataset is stored and in that dataset only we have 
data.yaml file.Now our model training is completed 
and we can download our elephants custom yolov5 
model 
which 
is 
stored 
in 
a 
path  
'./runs/train/exp/weights/best.pt' 
 
F. Deployment of yolov5 model 
 
Here for deployment of elephants YOLOv5 custom 
model we use tkinter .Tkinter is the popular GUI 
library of python which is used to create GUI for 
object detection projects.The sample GUI which is 
developed using tkinter is shown in Figure 6.This 
GUI is used to count and detect elephants in image. 
 
 
                                 Figure 6. Sample GUI 
 
                                                 IV. RESULTS  
A. Elephants Detection 
 
From Figure 6 if we click Detect Elephants button  
then we will get the results of elephants detected in 
image depending on the YOLOv5 model loaded into 
the GUI. 
     
                               Figure 7.  Elephants detection 
 
B. Elephants Counting 
 
From Figure 6 if we click Count Elephants button then 
we will get result of the count of elephants present in 
the image depending  on the YOLOv5 mdel loaded 
into the GUI. 
 
                                 Figure 8. Elephants Counting 
 
C. Evaluation Metrics 
 
Precision and Recall: 
Precision measures the ratio of correctly predicted       
positive observations to the total predicted positive 
observations. It shows the accuracy of positive 
predictions, emphasizing how precise the model is 
when it predicts positive classes. 
          Precision = TP / (TP + FP) 
Recall measures the ratio of correctly predicted 
positive observations to all actual positives in the 
dataset. It indicates the model's ability to identify all 
positive instances, emphasizing completeness. 
          Recall = TP / (TP + FN) 
 
 
                         Figure 9.Precision-Recall Curve 
F1-confidence threshold: 
The F1 score is a metric that combines precision and 
recall into a single value, providing a balance between 
these two metrics. It is computed as the harmonic 
mean of precision and recall: 
        F1=2×Precision×Recall/(Precision+Recall) 
The F1 score accounts for both false positives 
(precision) and false negatives (recall), making it 
useful for evaluating model performance in binary 
classification tasks. 
In object detection models like YOLO, confidence 
thresholds are used to filter detections based on their 
confidence scores. Detections with confidence scores 
below the threshold are often disregarded to control 
false positives. 
     
            Figure 10 . F1-Confidence curve 
Confusion Matrix: 
True Positive (TP): Correctly identified elephants by the 
model. 
False Positive (FP): Incorrectly detected elephants (model 
predicts elephants where there are none). 
False Negative (FN): Missed detections where elephants are 
present but not identified by the model. 
True Negative (TN): Not typically applicable in object 
detection scenarios (usually relates to correctly identifying 
non-target objects). 
 
                               Figure 11. Confusion matrix 
V.CONCLUSION AND FUTURE ENHANCEMENT 
    A. Conclusion 
In this paper we have used YOLOv5 algorithm 
to detect and count elephants from drone images 
which will be useful to monitor elephants in 
elephant 
reserves,forests 
.Our 
model 
is 
performing good with detection and counting of  
elephants very  accurately from the images we 
provide to it. 
 B. Future Enhancements 
For this model we can add video and webcam 
options which reduces the burden of uploading 
images and increase its usage as the scope of the 
project is only to detect and count from images. 
                                  VI. REFERENCES 
[1] Chamoso, P.; Raveane, W.; Parra, V.; González, A. UAVs 
applied to the counting and monitoring of animals. In 
Proceedings of the Ambient Intelligence-software and 
Applications, Salamanca, Spain, 4–6 June 2014; Springer: 
Cham, Switzerland, 2014; pp. 71–80.  
[2] Prosekov, A.; Kuznetsov, A.; Rada, A.; Ivanova, S. Methods for 
monitoring large terrestrial animals in the wild. Forests 2020, 11, 
808.  
[3] Kellenberger, B.; Marcos, D.; Tuia, D. Detecting mammals in 
UAV images: Best practices to address a substantially imbalanced 
dataset with deep learning. Remote Sens. Environ. 2018, 216, 139–
153.  
[4] Gemert, J.C.v.; Verschoor, C.R.; Mettes, P.; Epema, K.; Koh, 
L.P.; Wich, S. Nature conservation drones for automatic 
localization and counting of animals. In Proceedings of the 
European Conference on Computer Vision, Zurich, Switzerland, 6–
7 September 2014; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2014; pp. 255–
270.  
[5] Darshanraj N, P.K. Animal Counting and Detection Using 
Convolutional Neural Network. Int. Res. J. Eng. Technol. 
(IRJET) 2020, 7, 7.  
[6] Wang, C.Y.; Bochkovskiy, A.; Liao, H.Y.M. Scaled-YOLOv4: 
Scaling Cross Stage Partial Network. In Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition (CVPR), online, 19–25 June 2021; pp. 13029–13038.  
[7] Rosli, M.S.A.B.; Isa, I.S.; Maruzuki, M.I.F.; Sulaiman, S.N.; 
Ahmad, I. Underwater animal detection using YOLOV4. In 
Proceedings of the 2021 11th IEEE International Conference on 
Control System, Computing and Engineering (ICCSCE), Penang, 
Malaysia, 27–28 August 2021; IEEE: New York, NY, USA, 2021; 
pp. 158–163. 
[8] Duporge, I.; Isupova, O.; Reece, S.; Macdonald, D.W.; Wang, 
T. Using very-high-resolution satellite imagery and deep learning to 
detect 
and 
count 
African 
elephants 
in 
heterogeneous 
landscapes. Remote Sens. Ecol. Conserv. 2021, 7, 369–381.  
[9] K. Ding, X. Li, W. Guo and L. Wu, "Improved object detection 
algorithm for drone-captured dataset based on yolov5," 2022 2nd 
International Conference on Consumer Electronics and Computer 
Engineering (ICCECE), Guangzhou, China,2022,pp.895-899. 
[10] K. S. P. Premarathna, R. M. K. T. Rathnayaka and J. Charles, 
"An Elephant Detection System to Prevent Human-Elephant 
Conflict and Tracking of Elephant Using Deep Learning," 2020 5th 
International Conference on Information Technology Research 
(ICITR), Moratuwa, Sri Lanka, 2020, pp. 1-6. 
[11] Y. Zhang, Y. Cuan and Y. Jiang, "Research on improved 
YOLOv5 face mask recognition algorithm based on," 2023 8th 
International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Signal 
Processing (ICSP), Xi'an, China, 2023, pp. 1414-1417. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. 
